2025-10-13
Does Goblintown Count as Town?
The Right for Riches company has now visited Goblintown twice, and they are currently friendly with King Weskenim and the goblins.  At the end of the last session, one of the players asked me if Goblintown counts as "Town".  I thought for a second, and said "not yet."

What is Town?  Town is a place where you can safely rest for a week between delves (so no significant risk of dangerous random encounters).  There are other things PCs want in a Town (like stores and healers and trainers), but I think safety and a place to rest are the absolute bare minimum.

Goblintown seems pretty safe and friendly, but the PCs haven't fully explored it yet, so they can't be sure it's safe, so it's not considered Town yet.  Also, they haven't found a place in Goblintown where they can sleep yet, so even if it were safe, it wouldn't be appropriate for a whole week of downtime, just for a short visit.

On a meta level, for a game where not all the players are available every session and some players control multiple PCs, another purpose for Town is to have a way to swap out PCs between sessions.  For that purpose, you want there to either be exactly one Town where all the PCs stay between sessions, or multiple Towns with totally safe travel between them, so you can handwave the logistics.  The path between Gosterwick and Goblintown currently requires traversing some dangerous wilderness and dungeon, so even if Goblintown itself counted as Town, having some of the PCs in Gosterwick and others in Goblintown would be a bit of an issue.

So what would the PCs have to do to make Goblintown count as town?  First they'd have to explore it fully enough to be sure that it didn't contain hostile random encounters.  Second they'd need to find a place to sleep.  Third, they'd either have to gather all the PCs together in Goblintown, or find a safe way to travel back and forth to Gosterwick.  If they achieve all three of those goals, then Goblintown becomes Town, just like Gosterwick, but with a shorter commute to the rest of the dungeon.