dripton (GM) — 11/16/2025 12:30 PMSunday, November 16, 2025 12:30 PM
Downtime will work a bit differently now that you have (as far as you know) taken over the Beacon levels.  Those two maps are now freely navigable for players, as long as you have teleport rugs set up to get you back and forth to town safely without risking falls or random encounters.  Each PC can choose between Gosterwick downtime activities (alchemy, research in town, shopping, carousing, training with trainers in town) and Beacon downtime activities (research with the books you found, language training with Akla-Chah, improving your new base).  I would like to make experimenting with Rudishva artifacts a during-play-only activity, as it's not clearly safe. (edited)Sunday, November 16, 2025 12:30 PM
:thumbsup:
Click to react
:heart:
Click to react
:rofl:
Click to react
Add Reaction
Reply
Forward
More

dripton (GM) — 11/16/2025 12:55 PMSunday, November 16, 2025 12:55 PM
Things you know about the Beacon: 

1. Any of the oval keycards works to open the secret door to the closet off the reading room. That is a low-tech physical mechanism; you just jam a card in there.  (Lockpicks might also work if you knew how to use them.)

2. Any of the colored (2 * rust, brown, sky blue, pale green, orange) oval keycards works to open any of the iris doors in your space, by holding it near the door.  The metallic ones (copper, bronze, platinum) don't work.  You have 6 of the colored keycards, so as long as each PC takes one, you can all move around freely.

3. The northern part of both levels (white marble floors) seems to stay the same comfortable temperature all the time.  The southern part (gray granite floors) fluctuates with the outdoor temperature and there are no fireplaces.  So while the lounge has the comfy furniture, it's already kinda cold in there at night, and will get colder as winter approaches.

4. The stone door between the granite and marble areas has a lock and you don't have the key.  Vael unlocked it with a Lockmaster spell, which is the only way you know to lock or unlock it.  (It doesn't lock itself automatically when you close it.)

5. There is a several-inches-thick stone cap above the stairs out, with no holes large enough to climb through, and some dirt and sticks and rubble piled on top to try to hide the stone.  Getting out that way requires Shape Earth, or mining tools and either extreme strength or a long time.  (The bronze doors to the stairs require the password to unlock from either side; you know it.)

6. There is no privy.  Going through the teleport rug to the Arcane Practitioners Club every time you need to use one is annoying.

7. Arden Vul Cakes and Rudishva booze come out of the machine in Akla-Chah's room.  You don't know how long this will work.