Good 10-minute video about GM styles, on

dripton — 8/10/25, 6:20 PM
My thinking is mostly "if there's less than a 2% chance of the weird thing happening I'll just say it doesn't happen.  If there's at least a 2% chance I want to see a roll."

Based Cosmo — 8/17/25, 3:20 PM
I have actually adopted this in my games for the most part. I often give players +2 to +4 bonuses on mundane things; just to check if anything goes disasterously wrong. I think it is actually a great idea to reinforce the weird being, well, weird!

Based Cosmo — 8/17/25, 3:22 PM
I really enjoy your style of GMing and this game has helped me adopt better gameplay styles that are punishing but fair. (I also liked the idea of the baboons hooting to alert us so much that the orcs in my world speak in hoots now)

dripton — 8/17/25, 3:25 PM
There's this general idea of telegraphing danger that says that at least some of the time, the players should have some warning before something bad happens to the PCs.  So if they die it's at least partly their fault rather than just bad luck.  The pile of bodies in front of the fountain last night was a good example.  However, it's certainly not universal.  The gelatinous cube didn't telegraph anything (unless someone caught the very vague hint about the lack of dust on the floor), and if Uvash had missed one Vision roll, he would have run right into it.

Based Cosmo — 8/17/25, 3:25 PM
Yeah, that was possibly the most "oh my god, why did I do that" moment of all time. I constantly encourage my players to "stop, think, look" and then I go charging into a hallway alone after being told it was magical

Based Cosmo — 8/17/25, 3:26 PM
I do try to let my players know as best as possible that danger might be incoming, by either environmental clues or just player knowledge. E.g. if a ghost rises out of a mummy and there is valuable items on its chest, they are probably cursed (esp. if you sense they are magical).

dripton — 8/17/25, 3:29 PM
I think it's funny how players who will be cautious for most of the session will suddenly do something reckless.  Sometimes that's deliberate because someone is playing their disads correctly; sometimes it's just a player getting excited and forgetting.

Based Cosmo — 8/17/25, 3:30 PM
It is often me forgetting... or roleplaying as a dwarf. I often get into the "I am a dwarf" mindset while playing and do reckless things based on greed, like drinking from a fountain that will obviously do something bad (I have played enough NetHack to know) or be selfless or play into my sense of duty

Based Cosmo — 8/17/25, 3:31 PM
I do also have the mindset of "I am Uvash, Uvash is me, Uvash doesn't want to die"
