Rumor sharing

Zuljita — 3/11/25, 1:10 AM
Vael rumor 1 "The priests of Mitra are looking for some chumps to track down one of their missing clergy, a priestess named Lillian. It seems she went missing by that  huge overgrown Thicket down near the cliff of Arden Vul. We ran into a shepherd who claims he saw her being taken by walking pigs up the cliff into the ruins
of Arden Vul. If you can find and return this Lillian, there's a big reward posted in Newmarket."

Zuljita — 3/11/25, 1:10 AM
Vael rumor 2 "Thoth was deeply important to the ancient empire, as he represented the light of knowledge that erased the darkness of ignorance. For this reason, the Thoth priests were obsessed with light; every one of their Halls remains brightly lit with Thoth's bright, clear, light."

Archon Shiva — 3/11/25, 1:15 AM
🐐 1️⃣ "A massive road, built for creatures larger than [humans], runs for a mile through the caverns. If you can get on it, you’ll be able to reach the goblin king and the troll thegn."

🐐 2️⃣ "The caverns under Arden Vul produced a large supply of a wondrous orange mineral that proved to have very many arcane uses. The city was abandoned when the mines ran dry."

Zuljita — 3/14/25, 3:13 AM
@everyone in case you missed it, my rumors and AS's are here, anyone who wants to share would do well to do it here.

Archon Shiva — 3/22/25, 1:03 AM
🦋1️⃣ Gog is this barmy old goblin who lives in an underground grotto near the arena. He's eager to barter information for meat, especially beastman meat. If you do, he'll tell you a sob-story about how he was exiled from the goblin court due to the treachery of another goblin named Mook.
🦋2️⃣  Thoth may have represented the light of knowledge, but he was also the guardian of secrets. He favored those who acquired and guarded knowledge, and himself only revealed the most potent of his wisdom to the devout. There is said to be a chamber in the Upper Halls where, if one listens through an enormous horn, one can hear Thoth speak directly.

Archon Shiva — 3/27/25, 6:34 PM
🪙1️⃣ On the eighth level underground you can find a grotto filled with giant carved heads. The heads sing in recognizable tunes!  If you can get them to sing the right tune, they reveal a treasure vault. If they sing the wrong song, however, everyone dies.

Archon Shiva — 3/27/25, 6:35 PM
🪙2️⃣ The ancient cult of Set was known for its belief in the natural right of the  strong to dominate the weak. As a central part of this dogma, it operated its own slave trade, which it called "the Guild of service."

Archon Shiva — 4/10/25, 1:58 PM
🩸 1️⃣ The Set priests are slavers. Anyone they encounter on the Long Stairs leading to their Forum is liable to be enslaved. If you make it to the Forum, though, you're safe.

Archon Shiva — 4/10/25, 1:59 PM
🩸 2️⃣ The Pyramid of Thoth in the ruined city leads directly to the topmost of the many underground levels; beneath it are at least a dozen other levels, culminating in a huge cavern and lake at the bottom.

Archon Shiva — 4/10/25, 2:00 PM
🦎 1️⃣ At the foot of the chasm is a huge cistern the size of a lake. The cistern is 100' deep and covers the area of a small town. It is ruled by a terrible kraken.

Archon Shiva — 4/10/25, 2:01 PM
🦎 2️⃣ Marius Tricotor had his sorcerers create a magical bridge out of stone. This bridge, called the Imperial Span, crossed the Great Chasm, and allowed the archon's troops to move into the lower levels.

Archon Shiva — 5/22/25, 7:16 PM
👑 1️⃣ Everyone talks about the Drowned Canyon and all its wealth, but I don’t know an adventurer who admits to actually having found the damned canyon!.  The entire thing is a myth.
👑 2️⃣ The Thoth priests built numerous statues of their god. These appear in various  forms, including ibis-headed and baboon- headed. The eyes of all these statues were made of huge gemstones, which if removed allowed the bearer to contact  Thoth directly. Many of the statues were enchanted.
