dripton (GM) — 11/16/25, 1:24 PM
You read the book "Rudishva Devices".  It has pictures of a bunch of Rudishva devices, and some of the pictures look like some of the stuff the others found, so you can now put names on items in the loot sheet.  You also think that experimenting with the devices might be somewhat safer if you open the book to the right page and read all the warnings there before you touch anything.  But the writing is confusing and some of the devices look the same so you're not entirely sure, and you think it might make sense for some of the others to repeat your research before you start messing with any of the items, if you prioritize safety over speed.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/18/25, 6:27 PM
Ioannes will:
Craft a greater healing potion
Look to see how many minor healing potions are available, and buy them
Research town records on the crash of the Beacon and its aftermath
dripton (GM) — 11/18/25, 6:28 PM
Alchemy: success, discount
Freydis has limited Ioannes to 4 minor healing potions per week, to save some for others.  She hints that this limit might be raised if Ioannes showed some concrete progress toward finding any of Lady Alexia's Regalia.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/18/25, 6:30 PM
Ioannes is fine with this
dripton (GM) — 11/18/25, 6:30 PM
There is nothing at all on the Beacon in any documents Ioannes finds in town.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 11/19/25, 10:26 PM
Vallium will attempt to brew a Paut Potion. 

Vallium will spend $125 to have a Carousing +2 roll.

Vallium will ask Theopilos to make copies of the 3 "normal" keys discovered on the shipwreck (Page Reference: 101) as well as the elaborate bronze key (Page Reference: 136).

Vallium will approach Lyssandra and Pelteon to see if they are interested in the following offer: Vallium will give them his Elixir of Health for the purpose of reverse-engineering its recipe, in exchange for them providing Vallium with the recipe should they succeed, and no damages to be awarded should they fail and the potion is destroyed in the process.  They will be free to use the recipe themselves as they see fit.
dripton (GM) — 11/20/25, 9:37 AM
Alchemy: success!  Discounted paut.
Carousing: You spend a lot of money on drinks but you don't hear anything particularly interesting.  It feels like other adventurers are trying to get information from you.  You notice one guy in a robe taking notes of anything you say.
Lyssandra accepts the offer of the free Elixir of Health in exchange for the recipe if she can find it.  The next day, Vallium is given a piece of paper.  It has a potion recipe on it, in precise handwriting, except the ink is a weird purple color and it smells a bit off.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 11/20/25, 9:56 AM
Vallium will make a copy of the recipe and pass it along to @Demented Avenger (Ioannes) so he has it available in his personal records.
dripton (GM) — 11/20/25, 9:57 AM
Vallium now has Lyssandra's purple copy and Ioannes now has Vallium's handwritten copy.
Keys: the 3 normal keys are $10 each.  The elaborate bronze key was $25; the copy is the same shape but the handle part is not as elaborate and it is steel not bronze.
Cosmo (Uvash) [gur㎰],  — 11/22/25, 9:51 AM
Uvash researches Arden.
dripton (GM) — 11/22/25, 10:01 AM
You read several books on Arden.  She is one of the 20 Worthies of the Empire.  She lived around 2100 years ago, though some humans claim she never actually died but rather ascended to demi-godhood.  (This is clearly nonsense, showing that the historical record has been somewhat corrupted over time.)  She and her partner Vul the Sorcerer discovered the cliff and cavern systems that are now the Halls of Arden Vul.  Arden famously completed the 12 Labors, such as defeating owlbears and trolls and undead and dragons and Wiskin berserkers.  Though really only 11 Labors are detailed; the 12th is "still to be done at the time of the Empire's Need."  At the height of their power, Arden and Vul mysteriously disappeared and their bodies were never found.  The city that was later founded above the Halls was named after them.  There was a Cult of Arden among the military officials in Arden Vul, and is is claimed they built their own headquarters in the Halls and attempted to replicate the Labors of Arden.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/22/25, 10:58 AM
Ioannes will research the eyes that activate statues
dripton (GM) — 11/22/25, 11:10 AM
In the back stacks of the Library of Mitra, Ioannes finds a very old book about the ancient Sortians, the traitors under Priscus Pulcher who rebelled against the natural order of having magic controlled by the approved churches and colleges, in favor of just letting any idiot with magical aptitude cast spells.  Their failure to obey the natural order caused the Civil War and the abandonment of the Exarchate of Narsileon and set the Empire back a thousand years.  Anyway, among all their other sins such as summoning demons and letting women and elves hold leadership positions, they apparently made graven images, magical statues of their vain (and rightly executed by a very wise Exarch) leader Priscus Pulcher, that his charmed dupes could worship in various unapproved ways.  Most of them were too disgusting to recount in this book, but one confirmed ritual involved inserting magical eyes of various types into the eye holes of the statues, with effects such as passing messages, teleportation, and causing nearby children to disobey their parents.  The author advises funding a mission to find and destroy any surviving Sortian statues and eyes to prevent their use for evil. 
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 11/22/25, 11:50 AM
In the end who won? the sortians?
dripton (GM) — 11/22/25, 11:52 AM
It was a long civil war and everyone lost.  But the Empire survived, though with smaller borders.  Spell use was eventually opened up.  Some of the old churches lost power and new churches took their place.  Pulcher and the Sortians are still remembered as traitors but most people are fuzzy as to why.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 11/22/25, 11:53 AM
The statue we put eyes into had been identified as "The Philosopher" by us (somehow? I forget the details).  Is Priscus Pulcher also known as The Philosopher? 
dripton (GM) — 11/22/25, 11:55 AM
"The Philosopher" is kind of a generic figure.  Priscus Pulcher was an actual historical figure.  He did look kind of like The Philosopher late in his (shortened by execution) life, though.  You're not sure which came first.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/22/25, 11:56 AM
Are there tomes needed for a research library available for purchase in town? These would be helpful for us setting up our own library facilities in Arden Vul, and even collated basic information would be helpful for teaching our magical or sci-fi friends about the world outside
dripton (GM) — 11/22/25, 11:57 AM
Astableon has a bookstore, but it's not a HUGE bookstore.  There are books available but not every book you might want.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/22/25, 12:20 PM
I’m just looking for some simple references, like a single-volume encyclopedia and dictionaries for Archontean and Mithric. Maybe grammar references for those, very basic, like Ars Minor
Very simple bestiary and herbary 
Letting us double check some things, and possibly helping the statue and hologram
dripton (GM) — 11/22/25, 12:22 PM
Yes, Astabelon has books such as The Archontean Empire and Dickios and Janius Learn Mithric.  If you name a budget, he can pick a set of books that match it.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/22/25, 12:23 PM
Will check my budget and see if anyone else wants to contribute
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 11/22/25, 1:30 PM
We ask Akla-Chah about burial/funeral rites for rudishva (re: corpse), and show her the glyph that we found on the stone seat. 
dripton (GM) — 11/22/25, 1:33 PM
The Rudishva have a few different funeral traditions.  She says Full Recycling is the best but the Beacon currently lacks the ability.  She says Spacing is the second best but the Beacon currently lacks that ability too.  She says Cremation is the third best and might be practical if you have the means to build a suitably hot fire, somewhere outside the Beacon.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/22/25, 1:33 PM
How much is one of the books we're talking about? Trying to get an idea of whether throwing $100, $1,000, or $10,000 at this makes more sense
dripton (GM) — 11/22/25, 1:35 PM
Books vary in cost.  The basic kind you're looking at tend to be $10 to $50 depending on size and number of pictures.  You could make a very small library for $100, a decent one for $1000, and $10000 would be more than Astableon has available right now but he could get right on ordering books for you from Narsileon and let you know as they arrived.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/22/25, 1:35 PM
I'll throw $1k at it now, then
dripton (GM) — 11/22/25, 1:35 PM
He has that many books.
You now have about 15 general nonfiction books on various subjects.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/22/25, 1:37 PM
Ioannes is going to craft a sleep potion, and buy up the standard 4 minor healing potions 
dripton (GM) — 11/22/25, 1:37 PM
The glyph says "Restoration"
Alchemy: success
4 potions are available.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/22/25, 1:39 PM
For portability, how much do these books weigh?
dripton (GM) — 11/22/25, 1:41 PM
Books average 2 pounds each.  (Some are 1 and some are 3.)
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 11/26/25, 9:45 PM
Vallium will attempt to brew an Elixir of Health, using the recipe provided by Lyssandra. 

Vallium will spend $125 to have a Carousing +2 roll at the Stunned Acolyte, because he's run into Dalton there before, and he would like to hear more about the Arena.  He's also going to keep an eye open for any note-taking robed figures.

Vallium will see if a portable ram is available to purchase in Gosterwick.
dripton (GM) — 11/26/25, 10:09 PM
Alchemy: success, discount
Carousing: You do not find Dalton.  However, you hear from a Newmarket merchant that Lord Burdock has acquired a map leading to the Bone Ring of Jagri-Naz and the Iron Circlet of Ghanor, and has sent out a group of mercenaries, led by his bailiff, to recover them.
You do not spot anyone taking notes.
You do not find a portable ram.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/27/25, 2:29 PM
What does the Elixir of Health do? Should we stockpile them?
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 11/28/25, 12:02 AM
Elixir of Health (Cure Poison, Disease, Blindness, Deafness, Insanity) Found on July 4.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 11/28/25, 12:03 AM
This again please.
dripton (GM) — 11/28/25, 12:49 AM
Alchemy: success, discount
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/28/25, 7:19 AM
Ioannes will brew the elixir of health. Do we have a cost?
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 11/28/25, 7:28 AM
$1000 as per loot.
dripton (GM) — 11/28/25, 9:12 AM
Alchemy: failure, pay extra.  Pelteon runs into the lab and casts Purify Air.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 12/2/25, 6:49 AM
Alchemy 10+2 (Bless), please gimme a Death Potion for the 4th in a 4 pack.
dripton (GM) — 12/2/25, 10:01 AM
Alchemy: success, discount
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 12/2/25, 10:30 AM
Vallium is going to visit a few people this week.

1) He'll go seek out Anaximander at the Temple of Mitra, and ask him if the symbols of snake, cat, lizard, ram, and winged horse mean anything to him (Vallium's theory is that the ram represents the 2nd Legion, the Sheep's Head Rangers, and that the other symbols might represent other Archontean Legions that existed during Anaximander's heyday.)

2) Vallium will go to the Beacon, and show Stamelis one of the glass teleportation squares, and ask him if he knows anything about it.  Vallium will reveal to Stamelis that they now have a full set of six different colours and plan on using them. (Vallium's hope is that the squares are Thothian priesthood in origin).

3) Vallium will go to see Lyssandra and offer her the same deal as last time, except with his Potion of Gaseous Form.  One potion in exchange for the corresponding recipe.
dripton (GM) — 12/2/25, 10:39 AM
Anaximander is sleeping the first two times you try to visit.  The third time, you catch him awake.  He says the ram could be the Sheep's Head Legion, yes, but it does not look like the official Sheep's Head Rangers insignia that he remembers, other than both being sheep.  He does not recall snake, cat, lizard, or pegasus legions at that time, though he's not an expert on military history so maybe they could have existed.  But they were definitely not part of Adrienic's Expedition to re-conquer the Halls of Arden Vul.  That was the Sheep's Head Legion plus the third cohort of the Emperor's own Imperial Tagmata.
dripton (GM) — 12/2/25, 10:47 AM
Stamelis only speaks Mithric, but Akla-Chah now speaks both fluent Mithric and weirdly Vael-accented Archontean, so she can translate for you.  Stamelis says that he does recall the Thothian Teleportation Rings, but he never had permission to use them, any of the glass activation squares, or knowledge of the correct sequences.  He says only a few of the senior priests who had to move throughout the Halls had the squares.  As Librarian, he had the rank, but mostly stayed near the Library.  He recalls that there were two teleportation rings on the Library level, one at the west end and another at the east end, as he was asked to meet important visitors at both and escort them to the Library.
 
Lyssandra takes the potion.  A couple of days later, she gives Vallium a funny-smelling piece of paper with fuzzy purple ink, describing a recipe to create the potion.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 12/2/25, 11:43 AM
Vallium will write out two copies of the Potion of Gaseous Form recipe, and give one each to @Demented Avenger (Ioannes) and @Kyle (Vael, Zuljita).

Vallium will attempt to brew a Potion of Gaseous Form, using the recipe provided by Lyssandra.

Vallium will visit Theopilus to make a copy of the key (Page 200) and large bronze key (Page 193) obtained in the last session.

Vallium will spend $125 to have a Carousing +2 roll.

Vallium will see if a portable ram is available to purchase in Gosterwick.
dripton (GM) — 12/2/25, 11:44 AM
Alchemy: fail, pay extra
The regular key costs $10; the large bronze key costs $25 due to size, and the copy is steel not bronze.
Carousing: Vallium hears from a Thorcin adventurer that he saw a group of dwarves using the troll lifts.  They refused to say anything about their motives, and just clutched those weird stones they all wear around their necks. 
Vallium does not find a portable ram.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 12/2/25, 1:46 PM
Ioannes will also brew one of those potions
dripton (GM) — 12/2/25, 1:46 PM
Alchemy: success, discount
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 12/2/25, 1:47 PM
Research will be on the teleportation squares/tiles
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 12/2/25, 2:00 PM
Also, Ioannes is buying four minor healing potions again
dripton (GM) — 12/2/25, 2:03 PM
Ioannes fails to find any written record of the teleportation rings in Gosterwick.  After hearing from Vallium that Stamelis knows something about them, he questions Stamelis and learns a few details that Vallium missed.  1. The activation squares were made of Arcanum-enriched glass.  2. The squares were fragile, and after some were broken, the Prior of Thoth issued specially constructed bags for protection, and ordered that the squares should always be kept in the bags when not actually being used.  A later Prior assigned a few Lesser Priests of Holy Dexterity whose job was to carry and manipulate the squares for the senior priests, so that they would not have to soil their hands with such worldly matters.  3. There were only 6 colors of squares, and all gates were activated with the same 6 squares, but different orders corresponded to different destinations.  Stamelis isn't sure exactly how many Rings there were, but he knows there were some in the city, at least one in the Halls of Thoth, and definitely two on the Library of Thoth level.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 12/3/25, 12:46 PM
Vael will spend a small amount of time studying with Akla-Chah on written Rudishvan, (not enough for a point yet, want to learn other things too, just whatever's left after the following): Alchemy (already rolled) local shopping: 
go to Tasha's tailor and ask for 2 potion belt like box/bags for the glass squares.
     Priorities in order: Well padded, fast and easy in and out, can hang on a strap or belt.
Next look in town for fine Trap-Finder's Kit.
Study Prospecting for [1] and (maybe) Navigation (sea?) for [1] or acute hearing for [2]
start studying the maps from previous sessions and use my map-making kit to try to figure out the closest subterranean dungeon we've explored to the stairway down to the beacon.
dripton (GM) — 12/3/25, 1:13 PM
Tasha says she can make a well-padded bag with 6 separate padded compartments, but she's not confident that it will be fast to access, or that it will fit on a belt.  She says it will cost $100 if made of canvas (more if you want it to look fancy) and will weigh 3 lbs.  It will take a week to make one.
You found a Trap-Finder's Kit!
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 12/3/25, 1:13 PM
A fine one?
dripton (GM) — 12/3/25, 1:14 PM
No, only a good one.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 12/3/25, 1:14 PM
Sad. I'll take it anyway.
dripton (GM) — 12/3/25, 1:15 PM
You can find trainers for Prospecting and Navigation (Land) but there are no Navigation (Sea) trainers to be found.  It's not a common skill this far inland.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 12/3/25, 1:16 PM
Land vs sea is really about if you think I need sea to try to use measurement the way I described in gm questions 
and if I need sea to do it, I may go learn it one of these days.
dripton (GM) — 12/3/25, 1:17 PM
They default to each other.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 12/3/25, 1:19 PM
I'm hoping to be able to open it and close it with one ready maneuver, then 1 ready per item added or removed assuming it's already out.  Not looking for fast draw.
dripton (GM) — 12/3/25, 1:20 PM
You think the closest area you've explored to the Beacon is probably the western Great Cavern.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 12/3/25, 1:27 PM
oh, I'll be learning Earth to Air too.
Last thing for this downtime, I'd like to spend $1000 using my new prospecting skill, my power item (25 fp) and quick trips back to the APC to recharge to shape earth/earth to air to create a library space south of the stairs at least as large as the library of thoth, if I complete that and have budget left, I'll start tunneling towards the western great Cavern I'd love to come out above the tomb of ptarmis.
dripton (GM) — 12/3/25, 1:28 PM
No time for that this week.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 12/20/25, 6:49 PM
Ioannes will craft a potion of Greater Healing (replacement). I'll decide on Research later
He is also buying another four potions of minor healing
dripton (GM) — 12/20/25, 6:55 PM
Alchemy: success, discount achieved
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 12/22/25, 10:12 PM
Vallium will brew a Magebane Grenade.

Vallium will spend $125 to have a Carousing+2 roll.  Moving forward, any critical successes for Carousing rumors should be directed toward the Goblin Scepter.

Vallium will visit Theopilus to make a copy of the two keys he obtained from the Tower of the Ape, the one for the upper floor doors and the one for the basement cells. 

Vallium will see if a portable ram is available to purchase in Gosterwick.
dripton (GM) — 12/22/25, 11:07 PM
Carousing: Vallium hears from a recently arrived adventurer that they have discovered a fortified roadhouse within the ruins.  It has beds and meals and you can sometimes sell treasure there.  It's run by an Archontean man named Kettle-Belly who is a good man.
The keys are copyable for $10 each.
Vallium fails to find a portable ram.
Alchemy: success!
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 12/22/25, 11:12 PM
Vael town business:
1) warn the APC people to copy the data from the spell book and get rid of it, it belonged to an evil wizard who's still alive.
2) After Basil knocks away the worked stone in the corner, Vael will follow behind the remaining stone face and use Shape Earth to cut a clean new passage. As he excavates, he’ll form the removed stone into tidy, uniform bricks and stack them neatly in the reading room. Basil can then haul the bricks out to Gosterwick by wheelbarrow as managed spoil. At the same time, Vael will push the eastern wall of the reading room outward by five feet, carving the space deliberately to leave four-foot-wide stone shelf-supports at regular intervals, serving as both shelving bases and structural buttresses. Once the new space is fully opened and supported, the wall between the old and new construction can be safely removed to unify the room.
Expect ~12 castings, taking about 12 minutes total.
3) Take a little time to study Scry Gate.
4) Commission new robes (fine, ornate +3 Spider Silk robes)
5) Brew a Gaseous Form potion.
6) Send a letter using public speaking/diplomacy to Lady Alexia's steward Freydis inviting her to have workmen scoop up the bricks I'm donating to hasten the town wall building project.
7) resume studying Rudishvan writing.  Not expecting enough to spend a point this week, just noting that I'm learning it.
dripton (GM) — 12/22/25, 11:16 PM
Basil is very impressed by Vael's Shape Earth.  He asks if Vael can also dig a vertical hole somewhere for a privy; he can add a seat and a curtain later.
Tasha accepts the Spider Silk and starts working on the robes.
Alchemy: failure, pay extra
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 12/22/25, 11:18 PM
I've avoided that because I thought I needed ventilation to keep it from becoming explosive. Is that not within the resolution of the game or general knowledge?
dripton (GM) — 12/22/25, 11:19 PM
It's possible Basil has never built an outhouse.  He appears to be a city kid.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 12/22/25, 11:19 PM
I'll explain that to him.
dripton (GM) — 12/22/25, 11:19 PM
Basil nods and says he'll get some extra buckets in case anyone is stuck in the Beacon for a while.
The bricks that Basil leaves in a pile disappear.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 12/22/25, 11:22 PM
oh, and 8) stop by wicktrimmer and let him know there are burglers about, that one got himself killed by crossing us and that I no longer need spider silk
dripton (GM) — 12/22/25, 11:22 PM
You stop by the Rarities Factor, but Wicktrimmer is not there.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 12/22/25, 11:22 PM
I'll leave him a note.
dripton (GM) — 12/22/25, 11:22 PM
His assistant takes the note.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 12/23/25, 8:53 AM
Ioannes will research Kel Bormol, hopefully giving him clues about Arden Vul and about the parents who gave their child such a dorky name.
dripton (GM) — 12/23/25, 10:05 AM
Research: You find nothing about Kel Bormol's parents.  You do find mention of Kel Bormol being the Overseer of Thoth at the time of the collapse of Arden Vul, about 1200 years ago.  His other titles included Archmage of Thoth and Eye of Thoth.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 12/23/25, 8:39 PM
While Vallium is speaking with Fael, he mentions the black plant growing in pitch dark they encountered (Session 30: the cave underneath the Great Cavern), and asks if she would have any interest in a sample, or if she knows what it might be. 
dripton (GM) — 12/23/25, 8:41 PM
Fael has never heard of such a flower.  She would be interested in seeing a small cutting, but would not want such a flower destroyed.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 12/29/25, 8:08 AM
Ioannes buys 4 more minor healing potions, which will give him enough for a full funbag
He will brew a single major healing potion
dripton (GM) — 12/29/25, 9:28 AM
Alchemy: success!
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 12/29/25, 9:29 AM
Vallium will spend most of his down time in the Beacon, helping sort through the equipment stored there, and storing it in appropriate locations.  He'll assist Basil in providing reading materials for Akla-Chah and Stamelis, and join in on educating himself. (Vallium will spend character points to gain the Research skill, and learn Mithric at Broken for both Spoken and Writing).

At some point Vallium will use the Ring of Illusion Disguise to assume the appearance of Ptirasa, and ask Stamelis if he is familiar with her, and what information he can share about her.

Vallium will ask Akla-Chah for a physical description of the Command Tablet.

Vallium will attempt to brew a Sleep Potion Grenade.

Vallium will attempt to Research Sortian Eyes. (Base skill level of 9)
dripton (GM) — 12/29/25, 9:42 AM
Vallium learns a few words of Mithric and the Mithric alphabet, but he has not quite reached the Broken level yet.  So he's not ready to learn Research from Stamelis using Mithric sources.  However, he can pay a trainer in town to learn Research with Archontean sources, and the techniques should carry across to Mithric as his language proficiency improves.
Stamelis is impressed by the illusion trick but says he does not recognize Ptirasa, though she looks like a Thothian priestess.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 12/29/25, 9:43 AM
He'll pay the trainer in Gosterwick then.
dripton (GM) — 12/29/25, 9:51 AM
Akla-Chah says the Command Tablet is oval shaped, like the identity plaques but larger, and fits into the indentations in the command chair in the bridge if you need exact measurements.  She says it is covered with Rudishva glyphs, and also has a pair of small displays (like some of the ones on the walls in the bridge, except smaller), and two control sticks.  She thinks there were at least two, one kept by the captain, and the other probably held by the first officer.  She believes both of them are dead, so currently nobody is captain of what's left of the Beacon.
@Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) Does Vallium currently have a Bless +2?
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 12/29/25, 9:56 AM
Yes.
dripton (GM) — 12/29/25, 10:19 AM
Research: as his initial training Research project, Vallium tries to find something about Sortian eyes.  He uncovers a passage in a book about Pricsus Pulcher, the traitor who led the Sortians in their civil war against the Empire.  It says that the Sortians had magical eyes of silver and gold and sapphire, which were used for some unknown but clearly nefarious purpose.  Each had an actual human eye as an ingredient, which meant that the Sortians were guilty of defiling corpses at a minimum, and probably murdering people to take their eyes, which explained Priscus Pulcher's unnatural affinity to poor children.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 12/29/25, 8:29 PM
Ioannes will Research the scepter
dripton (GM) — 12/29/25, 8:33 PM
Research: You don't find anything historical about the scepter.  From an anatomy book, you're pretty sure it's carved from a troll femur.
Cosmo (Uvash) [gur㎰],  — 1/3/26, 1:30 AM
Uvash will research the feathers of Maat. He will do anything he can to get any bonuses to his research rolls.
(I’m very curious about them) 
dripton (GM) — 1/3/26, 9:16 AM
Uvash finds a passage in an old book from one of the weird old human religious cults who may not have even heard of Zodarrim yet: "And Maat gave unto her Most Faithful a feather, and said 'My servant, as long as thou hold My Feather forth with faith in Me, thou hast nil to fear from the Wight, or the Specter, or even the Vampir. So go bravely into the dark without Fear.  But be wary, for if thou dropst the Feather or thy faith falterth, thoust worm food.'"  You're not sure if these people were making things up, or if Zodarrim was working in mysterious ways.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 1/3/26, 12:41 PM
Ioannes is going to research secret names, both in general and what they mean for Thoth
dripton (GM) — 1/3/26, 12:46 PM
Everything Iaonnes finds out about secret names talks about demons and devils.  Apparently knowledge of their true names can give you some power over them, so they all use aliases.  He finds a story of a paladin of Mitra who used a secret name to summon and interrogate a demon, but the secret name turned out to be a second-level alias rather than its true name, and the demon faked compliance then killed the paladin when her guard was down.  The moral of the story appears to be never to talk to demons.  He does not find any mention of gods having secret names.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/3/26, 2:44 PM
Vael is going to get back from the expedition and buy the stone from Creon.  He'll draft him a letter to withdraw from the rarities factor for 10,100 (including a tip for letting him have the consideration).  On that note, he'll reach out to chairduster for a seal/signet design - something like this.  Any idea on cost?
Image
dripton (GM) — 1/3/26, 2:46 PM
Chairduster will do a design for $100, then will add it to any custom jewelery you buy from him if you want.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/3/26, 2:49 PM
Cool, I'll have a ring made.  Nothing too expensive for now, $500 more?
(silver is fine)
dripton (GM) — 1/3/26, 2:51 PM
You can buy jewelry for almost any amount you want.
At least in the $10 to $10000 range.  Below that it depends on whether you consider steel a precious metal, and above that the jeweler needs to start looking for rare materials.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/3/26, 3:00 PM
How are my robes coming?
dripton (GM) — 1/3/26, 3:00 PM
Robes are ready halfway through the week.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 1/3/26, 4:14 PM
That’s almost the logo on the King Crimson shirt I have on now!
Image
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/4/26, 8:34 PM
Vallium will continue to spend most of his down time in the Beacon, assisting Basil in providing reading materials for Akla-Chah and Stamelis, and attempt to on educate himself. (Once he has spent enough time on it, please let me know, Vallium will spend character points to learn Mithric at Broken for both Spoken and Writing).
.
Vallium will attempt to Research the "Song of Arden".
.
Vallium will attempt to brew a Potion of Flight.
dripton (GM) — 1/4/26, 8:36 PM
Vallium has spent enough time on Mithric to learn Spoken/Broken.
Vallium finds a very old book with the Song of Arden.  "Fear is the destroyer, it bites in the heart.
Fear brings me low, makes me writhe in the dirt.
Strength counters fear, pushes it deep in its hole.
Strength is my strength, let it fill all my soul."
Vallium makes a mess of his Alchemy attempt.  It will cost extra to make the potion.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/7/26, 12:57 AM
In addition to the signet ring stuff above, 
Vael will mention to Creon he's interested in a magical air purifier and water source similar to the stone.
Vael will make changes to the beacon area, adding a larder, privy and hallway for future expansion, as well as further expanding the library 5 feet or so. He'll dump the power from his old robes in the process.  He'll again create bricks (in greater quantity) and have Basil put them in the same place and send another note about more bricks.
Vael will pay to charge his new power item (Spider Silk Robes)
Vael will brew a potion (gaseous form).
Vael will consult with his prospecting trainer about ways to properly ventilate an underground area without letting rain in and offer him $50 for discretion and advice.
Vael will continue to spend some downtime working on learning to write in Rudishvan.
Vael gives Basil $100 per week to keep the new larder well stocked with food that we might raid at any time.
dripton (GM) — 1/7/26, 8:44 AM
Creon tells Vael that if anyone sells him anything like that, he'll let him know.
Vael successfully expands the annex outside the Beacon using Shape Earth, without causing any collapses or flooding.  Basil carries a lot of bricks through the Rug, to the apartment in the top floor of the APC, down the stairs, and out to a pile in a vacant lot.
Vael sends another note to Freydis about free bricks.  This time he gets a note back, expressing thanks for the bricks, and saying that any future correspondence on donations of building supplies for the future town walls should go to the thesmothete, Eusebia Phokas.
Pelteon charges Vael's robes.
Alchemy: success, discount
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 1/7/26, 8:48 AM
Ioannes is brewing a major healing potion
dripton (GM) — 1/7/26, 8:57 AM
Vael consults with Bombur Mica, a dwarven miner who's a member of Uvash's church.  Bombur says the best ventilation techniques involve setting up filters that stop water but allow air through using various types of semi-porous rock, but they are quite labor- and skill-intensive to initially set up (depending on the local geology) and require some maintenance over time.  He says that for a smaller mine, he and his assistant could probably do the work, but it would take a couple of months.  He says the poor prospector's version is to have the vent far enough above ground that water won't seep in, and under an overhang to keep most rain out, then have a drain at the bottom to catch any rain that trickles in.
Vael learns a few more Rudishvan glyphs but the written language is insanely difficult; there are so many to memorize!  Akha-Chah says that a lot of non-Rudishva have problems learning the full written language and there's actually an easier version called Semi-Glyphik that's a small subset of the full set of Glyphik.  She says that's what most Varumani and Varuda and Fucking Traitors, excuse her, others used.
Basil takes the $100 and goes food shopping.
dripton (GM) — 1/7/26, 9:01 AM
Alchemy: success, discount
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/7/26, 9:01 AM
(Vael is not interested in dumbing down his learning, he's just dividing his itme)
Can Bombur give me a quote given what I can tell him about the local geology?  I've done a lot of digging and have studied prospecting.
And I'm willing to support his effort magically
dripton (GM) — 1/7/26, 9:07 AM
He starts working up a quote until you tell him that the "mine" is in the ruins of Arden Vul, and then he says he needs to check with his wife.  The next day, he apologizes and says she won't let him work in dragon territory while they still have kids under 40.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/7/26, 9:09 AM
Heh, for what it's worth, he should be able to do most of the work from underground being on the surface and I could offer hazard pay all the same, but I understand.  The dragon is a current issue.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/8/26, 11:08 AM
I just realized I had some items in my quarters that probably should have been rolled for : Items that weren't on the list that should have been rolled for destruction if they weren't 
Ice Cage Potion
Eyes of Set
Shield Lamp 
If the ice cage survives I'd like to offer it for reverse engineering.  If there's an opportunity to pay her to take extra time to be more likely to succeed I'd happily do so.
dripton (GM) — 1/8/26, 11:42 AM
Potion: ok  Eyes of Set: ok  Shield Lamp: ok
Alchemy: success, you have a recipe for the Potion of Frost Cage (note correct name)
That cost $200
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/8/26, 12:15 PM
Does the $500 I bought it for represent the retail?
dripton (GM) — 1/8/26, 12:15 PM
No, those are $2000
If you got it for $500 you got a clearance sale
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/8/26, 12:15 PM
oh man, I got a deal
Now that we can make them, any chance I can get a rules level description of the potion for the archives?
dripton (GM) — 1/8/26, 12:17 PM
If you drink it or are hit by it, you are frozen in place.  ST roll to break free, +1 per subsequent turn.
Cosmo (Uvash) [gur㎰],  — 1/10/26, 8:02 PM
Uvash studies/researches "Thoth in All His Forms". 
dripton (GM) — 1/10/26, 8:04 PM
You can't read it; it's in a secret language.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/10/26, 8:05 PM
(We got the title using gift of letters)
Cosmo (Uvash) [gur㎰],  — 1/10/26, 8:06 PM
(Well, shit, I don't know how I didn't see that one coming. I guess I spaced on that.)

Uvash researches for any information on the Sun-Scarred Knights.
dripton (GM) — 1/10/26, 8:07 PM
You find nothing about them!
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/11/26, 3:39 PM
Vallium asks Stamelis what he knows about Kel Bormol, as he was likely a Head of Thoth/Librarian Emeritus during Kel Bormol's tenure.
dripton (GM) — 1/11/26, 3:50 PM
Stamelis says that he knew who Kel Bormol was (everyone in Arden Vul knew who Kel Bormol was), but didn't really know the man, as he rarely came to the Library.  He would instead send minions to fetch books, usually with an imperious note about how the Overseer of Thoth required the book so Library rules did not apply and failure to comply would be noted.  He was the Overseer of Thoth, an archmage, and (apparently) not a very nice person, so almost everyone was terrified of him and did whatever he wanted.
Kel Bormol disappeared unexpectedly during the civil war.  Stamelis said he didn't seem like a secret Sortian, but maybe he was murdered, or maybe he just teleported away from danger. 
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/12/26, 1:58 PM
Vallium will again spend most of his week in the Beacon, helping to sort through the new acquisition of books, and categorize them into different sections like Scrolls, Spellbooks, Archontean, Mithric, and Secret Language of Thoth.  The Secret Library texts will continue to be stored separately.  He'll spend some time holding up books for Stamelis, in exchange for Stamelis reading aloud, so Vallium can continue to improve his Mithric (Spoken).
. 
For his personal reading/Research Vallium will read Secreta Sanctorum to see what secrets it holds, and to continue to improve his Mithric (Written). He will do this away from Stamelis...but he will let Basil know where he is just in case there's another unfortunate optics-related injury.
.
Vallium will attempt to brew an Agility Potion.
.
dripton (GM) — 1/12/26, 2:16 PM
Vael and Ioannes did not think Secreta Sanctorum was magical, so Vallium thought it was safe to check out.  It's slow going as his Mithric isn't that good, but it appears to be a book full of secrets.  He finds 7 alleged Secret Names of Thoth (including the one he already heard), some gossip about ancient misdeeds of the Ligareon and Vasildon clans, some evidence that the Silent Factor was planned as a front for the Imperial Private House, and a map of some underground rooms.  Vallium now has spent enough time studying Mithric to buy both spoken and written Mithric at the Broken level.
Alchemy: success, discount
dripton (GM) — 1/12/26, 2:30 PM
Basil's reading seems to be steadily improving.  He's started working through Twelve Labors of Arden in Mithric, with help from Stamelis and Akla-Chah.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/12/26, 2:36 PM
As self-proclaimed Book of Secrets go, I have to say, this one lived up to the hype.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/12/26, 7:37 PM
In addition to @Demented Avenger (Ioannes)  identifying our new acquisitions with Gift of Letters, there are other older texts we have that Vallium will lay out to have their titles identified:

Book, Unknown (Session 6, 18-April-2025, page reference 185)

Book, Ancient (Session 27, 17-October-2025, page reference 189)

Book, on Bone Plates (Session 30, 07-November-2025, page reference 301)

Book, Parchment and Hide Codex (Session 30, 07-November-2025, page reference 301)

Copper Plaques with strange glyphs and Mithric notes (Session 30, 07-November-2025, page reference 301) if Gift of Letters works on the glyphs 
dripton (GM) — 1/12/26, 7:46 PM
185: Property of Eustachius the Cantor
189: The Founder and His Deeds
301: The Theskelonia
301: Rise of the Sortians
301: This is only 3 plaques so Gift of Letters lasts enough to get all the Rudishva writing.  First plaque "power" and "flight".  Second plaque "dwelling" and "peaceful".  Third plaque "armory" and "mechanical voice".
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/12/26, 7:53 PM
Thank you.  The first 4 were all Secret Language of Thothian Priests?
dripton (GM) — 1/12/26, 7:55 PM
No, the first 2 were one secret language.  The next 2 were a different secret language.  The last one had a mix of Rudishva glyphs and later notes in Mithric.
Both secret languages use the Mithric alphabet, but the words are nonsense, except (briefly) to Ioannes when he has his spell running. 
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/15/26, 5:55 PM
3 books for this week:
Thirty Uses for Arcanum
Notes on the Followers of the Arch-Traitor, Priscus Pulcher
Lamentations of Hesius or the Last Days of Lord Thoth's Dominion
Vael will also continue work on Rudishvan with Akla-Cha, and go interview Anaximander, I just want to primarily ask him about Lankios, K and Guivrel, I'd also like to skim the notes the priests have taken from their interviews with him.
dripton (GM) — 1/15/26, 5:58 PM
Notes on the Followers of the Arch-Traitor, Priscus Pulcher, with Suggestions for their Destruction: short book, anonymously written.  Basically, Priscus Pulcher is a horrible person in 58 different ways and should die.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/15/26, 5:59 PM
Nothing on philosopy, tactics or proceedures huh?
dripton (GM) — 1/15/26, 6:00 PM
Not really, just a bunch of charges
You can't read Lamentations.  It's in a secret language you do not know.
You can try for a meeting with Anaximander in play.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 1/15/26, 6:01 PM
Does Gift of Letters work on it?
dripton (GM) — 1/15/26, 6:01 PM
Yes, you used it to get the title.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/15/26, 6:02 PM
Okay, will pick another book
Animating the Inanimate
dripton (GM) — 1/15/26, 6:04 PM
Animating the Inanimate is about creating constructs.  There is definite overlap with the other book you found and sold to Lady Alexia, The Art of Becoming, but the latter was more complete.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/15/26, 6:05 PM
and maybe I don't have much else to do this downtime and might just keep reading then.  Is there enough here to make any golems that aren't made from the bones of heroes?
dripton (GM) — 1/15/26, 6:07 PM
It talks about making those, but the directions are incomplete.  It also talks about making animated stone statues for very repetitive work, which looks less difficult.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/15/26, 6:08 PM
So from a metagame perspective, those are still not for PCs to build right?
dripton (GM) — 1/15/26, 6:08 PM
Not unless they want to spend a lot of time.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/15/26, 6:09 PM
Is there anything of interest in this one if you don't plan to make golems?
dripton (GM) — 1/15/26, 6:10 PM
No.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 1/15/26, 6:18 PM
Ioannes will brew alkahest this week, and research the Cult of Arden
dripton (GM) — 1/15/26, 6:23 PM
Alchemy: success
Research: You find something in an old history book.  "In the last centuries before the war of the Sortians and Theosophs, an elite cult of Arden devotees emerged among the military officials stationed in Arden Vul. They delved their own halls within the cliff face, where, it was said, one could attempt to replicate the Twelve Labors of Arden. The entrance to these halls was located on the hand of the colossus of Arden found on the cliff face."
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 1/16/26, 11:46 PM
Ioannes will research how to wreck the sanctity of the Settite temple
dripton (GM) — 1/16/26, 11:47 PM
Ioannes sees two paths to destroying a temple: vandalism and the Hallow spell.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 1/16/26, 11:47 PM
Doesn't seem like much research!
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/18/26, 10:15 AM
Vallium will visit Rolf at the temple.  He'll give him a bursary of $200 for clothing, lodging and travel to get home, but he will also ask about his experiences to see if there is any useful information to glean.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/18/26, 10:17 AM
This is a question asked and answered the same way several times now.
dripton (GM) — 1/18/26, 11:05 AM
Rolf thanks Vallium for his help.  He indicates that he was harvesting rye on a farm to the west apart from the other workers, when a man he did not know approached to talk to him.  While he was talking to the man, an unseen person clubbed Rolf in the back of the head.  Rolf was bound, gagged, and thrown into the back of a wagon with a couple of other farm workers.  They were eventually taken out of the wagon and led to a basket, that took them up a cliff, and then they were led by different armed men through some rough cave passages, then some worked passages, then up a lot of stairs, then through an extremely dark area, then through what he later learned was the Forum of Set.  From the Forum they were led through some more passages, a door was unlocked, and they were taken into a room that contained a pit full of slaves.  The kidnappers then removed their ropes and gags and just pushed them into a basket hanging over the pit.  The basket was lowered and they were told to get out, then the basket was taken away.  Rolf survived in the pit for a few weeks.  Sometimes more people would be put in.  Sometimes people would die.  Sometimes their captors would throw in some food or water and there would usually be fights over it.  Occasionally the captors would lower the basket and say a number, and people would fight to get into the basket and be taken out, though nobody knew if they were being taken somewhere better or somewhere worse.  Recently, the slavers said "5" and Rolf managed to be one of the first five into the basket.  They were all taken to a room and looked over, then taken to the Forum and sold at a slave auction.  Rolf was purchased by a man named Belisarius, the Overseer of Set.  He was led to a huge temple that he was told he would be helping to clean.
Rolf worked cleaning the temple for several days, but then a red-haired woman in scale armor surrounded by bodyguards came in and pointed at him.  The guards tied him to the altar.  The woman locked the Temple doors.  There was a lot of mumbo jumbo and cultists and candles but Rolf was pretty sure they were going to kill him.  And then there was the sound of fighting off to the north, and then a guard came running in talking about invaders, and everyone started running around and forgot about Rolf, until you came in and freed him.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/18/26, 11:56 AM
I'd like to sit with rolf and any other set survivors I can find and try to use my map kit/map collection to try to draw out the complex
dripton (GM) — 1/18/26, 12:01 PM
Rolf does not know enough of the complex to give you much.  There's a slave pit near the Forum but he's not sure which direction.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/18/26, 12:19 PM
Any other survivors to interview to try to map our route?
dripton (GM) — 1/18/26, 12:38 PM
You ask Basil what he remembers about the Set area.  His experience is somewhat similar to Rolf's, somewhat different.  He got really drunk in Newmarket, passed out, and woke up manacled and gagged in a covered wagon.  There were three other prisoners in the wagon, all pretty young women.  The wagon went north for about a week.  Each of them got to be untied and ungagged occasionally for meals or comfort breaks, with warnings that if they tried to escape or screamed, all four would be killed.  He got the same basket ride to the top of the cliff, the same walk through the caves, and the same basket ride into a slave pit.  But he said the pit the four of them were lowered into had blankets, buckets of water, and a latrine pit, and they got fed every day.  The inmates cooperated to help each other and worked together to plot escape, led by some woman who said she was a cleric of Odin (and who also had the ability to magically create extra food).  Before managing to escape, one day Basil and two other young men were selected for "release" and told to get in the basket.  They were manacled, taken to the Forum of Set, and sold at auction to Tikun Thane.  Tikun Thane's men blindfolded them and led them on a long walk.  He remembers a basket ride down, then a lot more walking and some floating through the air and eventually going through some magic gate to the Tower of the Ape, where he and the other two men were kept in a basement cell and forced to fight each other twice a day, under the guidance of the Disciplined.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/18/26, 1:12 PM
I'll learn dispel magic this week and try it on the snake statue.
dripton (GM) — 1/18/26, 1:21 PM
You use your new Dispel Magic spell on the snake statue, from a respectable distance to avoid getting bit.  This is effective and the snake statue stops moving and no longer looks magical.  Inert snake statue added to loot sheet.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/18/26, 7:52 PM
Vallium attempts to brew a Potion of Universal Antidote.
.
Vallium visits Theopilus to make a copy of the Large Bronze Key (Page Reference 306), although he does check first to make sure it is not a match with the other Large Bronze Key they already have (Page Reference 193).
.
This week Vallium will read the book Vul Speaks. (Research)
.
Vallium will spend $125 for Carousing this week.  While he's out and about he wants to see if any other rival adventuring party members have visited the Forum of Set, and what stories they can tell. Specifically, what are the Mysteries?
.
I want to purchase Resistant to Poison, which is on my 5EP, but I'm not sure for the best in-game explanation for it.  Vallium pays Fael for some Herb Lore concoction that builds up his generally resistance to poisons?
dripton (GM) — 1/18/26, 7:58 PM
Alchemy: fail, costs extra
The large bronze keys are different, though both are too large to fit on your keychain.  This one is about 12", while the other is about 8".  This one costs $50 to duplicate (in steel).
Vul Speaks is rough going as the Mithric is archaic, though you can get through most of it.  You are not sure if all of it was actually written by Vul.  There are discussions of Vul's travels, his life with Arden, mastering arcanum, and building a house and laboratory "within sight of the city that bears my name."  There's a lot of magical theory that's hard to follow.
dripton (GM) — 1/18/26, 8:08 PM
Carousing: You don't find anyone who admits to visiting the Forum of Set.  You meet a halfling named Raye who tells you that "Arden Vul attracts wizards and priests like dung attracts flies. A crazed wizard named Khan rules the second level from the top with the aid of an army of ghouls. It's said he needs new souls to keep him alive; his ghouls do the procuring for him. The worst part? He pretends to be helpful ... that's when the ghouls strike!"
Yes, you can pay training costs for Resistant to Poison.  This mostly consists of eating gross things, three times per week.  You notice that the second time you show up at the Grain Hall to do this, several cats are watching with interest.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/18/26, 11:43 PM
Vael Activities
1) Learns counterspell and dispel magic
2) Attempts to interview the two survivors for details.
3) Brews a potion: Death
4) reads 3 books
Thirty Uses for Arcanum (It looks like I asked to read this one last week and didn't get details, if that was an oversight, could I read the backup and get the details from last week?)
A Canticle of Arcane Knowledge
On Profit
Archons of Arden Vul (backup in case that last one is in secret words or I get a book from last week) 
5) attempts to use streetwise to see if anyone knows the latest gossip on the cult of set
dripton (GM) — 1/18/26, 11:47 PM
Alchemy: great success!  Half price!  Turns out you could use that crap from the bottom of your shoe instead of an expensive reagent!
Thirty Uses for Arcanum: enchanting objects, recharging magic items, opening gates to the astral plane, opening the mind to help invent spells, leaching morality from the evil, enhancing libido, instantly taming dragons.  You think maybe Ysgred the Mad was making stuff up.
Canticle of Arcane Knowledge: This is by Priscus Pulcher.  He thinks Magery is distributed equally across the population.  Seems pretty obvious.
On Profit: seems to be about venture capital, finance, and making monpolies.  Pretty dry.
Archons of Arden Vul: This is a list of archons from AEP 893 to AEP 1783.  Short summeries of each one's reign.  Super boring.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/18/26, 11:54 PM
oh and 6) keep on working on reading rudishvan slowly but surely.
dripton (GM) — 1/18/26, 11:54 PM
Streetwise: Nobody seems to want to talk about Set.
You learn the glyphs for "Shining Beacon of Glorious Heaven"
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 1/23/26, 5:17 PM
Ioannes will brew an invisibility potion
dripton (GM) — 1/23/26, 5:24 PM
Alchemy: success!
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/23/26, 6:34 PM
Shopping for current month (need to check date)
Shopping for current month (need to
11 Messages ›
There are no recent messages in this thread.
5d ago
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/24/26, 9:49 AM
With such little time between heading out, I think the main thing we do is have a conversation with Akla-Chah.  We'll show her and ask her about:

a) the yellow ID (What will it allow us to do?)

b) the black card (What does this do?)

c) Temrin's map displaying the Rudishva floor plan and our descriptions (What part of the Beacon did this belong to, and what would you expect us to find in the western/unexplored area?)

d) the three teleportation circles (Any idea where they might lead?)

e) the various corpses (What are the two other species we saw?)

f) the flasks of liquid (Any idea what they are?)
dripton (GM) — 1/24/26, 10:47 AM
Akla-Chah says she believes the yellow oval is Captain Leil-Jor's identity plaque.  She thinks it should open any Rudishva door and activate any Rudishva teleporter.  She asks where you found it.
She thinks the black card is a security key to some kind of Rudishva technology.  She asks where you found it.
She says that area was called the Bastion.  It was a piece of the crashed Beacon, containing the captain's quarters, the first officer's quarters, and the security officer's quarters.
Akla-Chah does not have a map of where all the teleportation circles go, but she knew that after the Beacon broke up in the crash, the crew used teleporters to allow easy passage between the intact parts of the ship.
She identifies the amphibian creatures as heqeti.  She is surprised you do not know them, as they are native to your world.  She says they were nasty hostile underground creatures, but primitive, and the Rudishva always defeated them, until they were betrayed.
She identifies the six-legged beings as Traitors, who betrayed the Varumani to the heqeti.
dripton (GM) — 1/24/26, 10:55 AM
She is not sure about the liquids, but can guess.  She knows that captain Leil-Jor and some of her engineers were working to modify one of the Beacon's small craft for long-distance space flight to try to send for help from Rudish, and this required a more intense energy source than those available, so these liquids may have been related to that project. 
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/24/26, 1:20 PM
Vallium is upfront in that they have discovered the Bastion and likely the bodies of Captain Leil-Jor and another rudishva.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/24/26, 6:34 PM
Vallium will ask Akla-Chah if she knows what the difference between silver square panels and gold/yellow square panels are?
dripton (GM) — 1/24/26, 7:18 PM
Akla-Chah patiently says "The yellow ones require the Captain's card.  The others work for anyone."
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/24/26, 7:19 PM
"Are there only yellow and silver panels, or are there other colours as well?"
dripton (GM) — 1/24/26, 7:20 PM
Akla-Chah says "I'm a psychologist not a teleportation engineer, so there might be others, but those are the only ones I've heard about."
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 1/30/26, 4:25 PM
Ioannes is going to research green dragons in general, with an eye to the ecosystems around them. He will also brew a major healing potion (for lack of a better thing to brew)
dripton (GM) — 1/30/26, 4:25 PM
No time for either.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 1/30/26, 4:25 PM
Ah, ok
Something for later. I want to know who benefits from Craastonistex’s continued existence, for when I put the research request in, and he doesn’t appear in many records
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 7:45 AM
Vael will have Basil haul all the rudishva tech onto the bridge and lay it out on the ground while he points to each item and asks the computer questions about it.  He's chomping at the bit now to try to understand everything about the technology.  Where does the energy come from?  how is it supplied? can we get more?  are there limits?
Questions for ship computer:
1) total quantity of yellow cards brought to this planet?
2) list of valid card colors and either their purpose or access level?
Can the main ship computer patch Akla-Cha into this room somehow so she can act as a bridge advisor?
Cosmo (Uvash) [gur㎰],  — 1/31/26, 8:57 AM
List of things to do this week for Uvash (let me know what conflicts):

If Uvash can, he would like to ask the big voice guy thingy which calls itself the “On Bored Compu Tear” how the energy weapons they found work and how to use them effectively.
Uvash would like to give a sermon that includes some miracle, whether it be minor or major, in an attempt to convert more people.
Uvash will prepare the apartment he has for his family’s arrival in the spring.
Uvash will attempt to brew a minor healing potion (I believe I dropped a point into Alchemy)
Uvash will catalogue the books that we have alphabetically, then set aside the ones that we’ve already read, also in alphabetical order.
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 10:09 AM
Bridge computer: I have technical specifications for some of these devices.  (The specs are very hard to understand and the computer is not a good teacher.)
There were two yellow captain's identity plaques registered in the system.
Identity plaques and colors:
Rust: crew, opens non-secure areas and their own quarters

Brown: NCO, also opens doors to additional quarters, storage lockers

Sky blue: junior officers, some secure areas

Pale green: senior Varuda officers, some high security areas

Pink: senior Varumani officers, some high security areas

orange: senior Kaliyani officers, some high security areas

silver: senior Rudishva officers, some high security areas

yellow: captain, opens everything
The computer lights up the station with the green chairs to the left of the bridge entrance, and indicates that is the communication station, and that if someone activates it, the image and voice of whoever is sitting in the captain's chair can be projected for two-way communication with any connected and intact pod of the Beacon.  The computer indicates that the Observation Lounge is not currently connected but it can attempt to integrate with Akla-Chah's communications there.  The computer indicates that communication with Akla-Chah should now be possible.
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 10:16 AM
The computer indicates that interstellar comms are still offline.
The computer brings up some technical specifications in Rudishva for the energy weapons, which are identified as "laser pistol" and "laser rifle".  These are not easy to understand, but it appears you need to put one of the Lesser Power Supplies inside, then point one end at the target, and push a button on the top to activate the weapon, then push another button on the front to make energy come out.  (Note: actually testing dangerous devices is not a downtime activity.)
There are flashing lights and some warnings about not pointing the weapon at anything you don't want to melt and only testing in designated safe areas under the supervision of a qualified instructure.  There's also a note about a data crystal training course that should be fully viewed before operating laser weapons.
alchemy: success, discount
theology: success, Uvash has convinced 2 dwarves and 1 human to start attending services.
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 10:23 AM
Uvash starts sorting books, in a different order than Stamelis had asked Basil to sort them.  This causes great pain to Stamelis.  He believes that Thothian Mithric alphabetical order is actually a holy sacrament, and sorting books any other way is a sin.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/31/26, 10:27 AM
Heretical classification systems is deeply amusing.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 11:09 AM
I'll go on to ask akla cha if she can take on the role of technology teacher.  She can apparently "see" the bridge so I ask her to help me figure out what everything means/is.
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 11:13 AM
"I'm sorry Captain Vael.  I am a psychologist not a military officer.  I am not qualified with some of this technology, especially the weapons, and do not want to claim more expertise than I have and contribute to injury.  I can help you with the GnuCoder 1000 Data Reader, the Command Bracelet, the GnuCoder 3000 Data Recorder, and the associated data crystals and power supplies, though." 
"I would suggest perusing the books and data crystals to see if there's anything helpful.  If not, perhaps we could find a former crew member of the Beacon who knows more."
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 11:19 AM
That's great!  I'll ask you to help me understand what the ship computer is saying.  I'm not satisfied with not comprehending the technical jargon.  If I can imagine a symbol hard enough to shake the physical world, I can learn how to understand squiggly lines, math and foreign words
Magic is the peak powerful knowledge that was available to me last month, now there's a whole world of technology I need to understand as well to maximize my potential.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 11:31 AM
(does her instruction make it possible to read data crystals? If so I will happily fire it up and read the titles of everything we have)
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 11:33 AM
She instructs you to put one of the small power supply discs inside the GnuCoder 1000 tablet.  This causes the screen to light up with a Rudishva glyph.  She translates it as "insert data crystal."  She indicates that each data crystal has the title on one end, and that you insert the data crystal in the hole with the glyph facing out.  Which one would you like to view?
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 11:33 AM
Is there a list available somewhere that I'm not referencing right now?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 11:33 AM
loot sheet
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 11:36 AM
Let's jump in on the deep end "data crystal: the
Shining Beacon of Glorious Heaven: Technical Specifications of this
Yort-Class Exploration Vessel"
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 11:40 AM
It is a six hours long.  It consists of interviews, in Rudishva, with several crew members.  (Mostly Rudishva, one Kaliyani, one Varuda, one Varumani.)  They all speak in Rudishva about various aspects of the Beacon such as life support, weapons, communication, medical, astrogation, and shuttles.  Akla-Chah says she can translate any words you don't know, or you can use the bridge comm station's live translation capabilities to translate into over 100 languages.  (She notes that its support for languages like Archontean and Elvish probably isn't great yet, but will improve if you converse in those languages on the bridge.)
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 11:41 AM
So it's a video?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 11:41 AM
She shows you the features "play", "rewind", "select chapter", "repeat last 12.8 seconds", etc.
You can now play videos.
You have 2 GnuCoder 1000 players so you can actually play 2 videos at once.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 11:42 AM
Can I play them on the bridge computer in any way so that I don't have to use personal power cells?
It will probably break some engineer's heart to know that I'm using his bridge as a DVD player
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 11:42 AM
Unfortunately the bridge computer does not have a data crystal port, for security reasons.  However, video playback on these small screens uses very little power: one lesser power supply should be good for thousands of hours of operation.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/31/26, 11:43 AM
Are Kaliyani the 6-limbed species? And also the "betrayers"?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 11:43 AM
Do you ask Akla-Chah or the computer?
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 11:43 AM
I think both
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/31/26, 11:43 AM
Akla-Chah.
I want the sassy answer.
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 11:44 AM
The computer indicates that, yes, the Kaliyani are the loyal species with reptilian features and 6 limbs.  They are intelligent, dextrous, and make excellent science officers.  Akla-Chah indicates that those are the betrayers and talking about them causes her great pain, as their treason caused the death of most of her friends.
However, if you need her help hunting them down and killing them, she can probably get through it.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 11:47 AM
We haven't seen any evidence except corpses so far have we? They may even be extinct
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 11:47 AM
Akla-Chah smiles when you say that.
Alka-Chah indicates that one of the data crystals is the Crew Roster, and if you want to identify any of the corpses you found, you can compare against it.
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 11:54 AM
The Beacon had a crew of about 200 Rudishva, 75 kaliyani, 100 varuda, 75 varumani, and 2 AIs.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 11:54 AM
I will take a minute to try and do exactly that.
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 11:58 AM
The crew roster is a 5-hour video, with about 40 seconds per subject.  Each one shows 3D images of the subject, as well as giving their name, rank, job, and highlights of their work history.  All the corpses you've seen are really old and all Rudishva kind of look the same to you (thought the jumpsuit colors are a clue), so you don't think you can ID any corpses from memory.  If you actually brought the tablet and crew roster crystal to the corpses and compared, you could probably ID at least the ones in good condition.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 12:00 PM
What's on the untitled Crystal
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 12:02 PM
It's a 15-minute video of a Rudishva in a blue one-piece shift (not a jumpsuit like other Rudishva have been wearing) doing what look like some kind of regimented exercise or dance poses.  At the end of the routine, the Rudishva says "Your honor is my honor. Return safely so that we shall both be
enhanced in honor and joy.”
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 12:04 PM
Do either of our electronic companions have commentary on this video?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 12:05 PM
Akla-Chah says it is very sad that this partner of a crew person probably never got to see their partner again after the Beacon crashed and most of the crew died due to the treason.  She hoped they were able to move on with their life.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 12:11 PM
Is there any relevant cultural lesson I should learn or just feel bad for snooping?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 12:12 PM
Akla-Chah doesn't seem to have a problem with you watching any data crystal.
Akla-Chah says that as Captain you have full access to everything.  She mentions that if any private personnel matters come up, she would advise you to have others leave the room to protect privacy.
Of course as Captain if you choose to share any details with any other officers that is your decision.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 12:18 PM
Can I view the diary? I'll use the live translation and invite aklacha to give live feedback on the translation quality
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 12:25 PM
The diary is 4 hours long.  It starts after the Beacon crashed.  Pliv-Mol, the Rudishva Chief of Security, talks about how the harmonious work ethic of the star-born hegemony will lead to repairing the Beacon.  Later it appears that won't happen but he's optimistic the engineers can fix the interstellar comms and call for help.  Later that appears not to be working but they have settled in to take over the Halls of Arden Vul and continue their society while attempting to re-invent space flight.  They are also breeding additional varuda and varumani!  And something about using arcanum as fuel.  Over time the entries become shorter and less optimistic.  Toward the end, he suspects Liss-Tak, the kaliyani leader, of plotting treason.  He says it might be necessary to quarantine the kaliyani and he has begun planting mines through the kaliyani area east of the midnight road.  He says the mines are on a dead-man's switch and will go off if he doesn't say the password daily.  That is the last entry.
Akla-Chah says the translations are pretty good but the computer speaks Archontean with a very angry accent.  She suggests having more crew members talk near it regularly to smooth it out.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 2:40 PM
That's just an elvish accent with a little punk flare. It's really for the best
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 2:45 PM
Akla-Chah used to talk like that too, but now she has a much more pleasant Archontean voice.  She sounds kind of like Lady Alexia despite never meeting her.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 2:54 PM
Can we try data crystal: Fire Pits of Creation next?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 3:04 PM
The Rudishva and Kaliyani built a forge inside Arden Vul, that uses a combination of tech and magic.  There are molds for making various items.  You need to use the right mold, the right settings of 3 controls (temperature, chthonic energy, phase), and then the right raw materals (which include steel ingots, arcanum, and lava).   Items mentioned in the video include struts and plates and fuel cells (replacement parts for the Beacon), teleportation plates, melee weapons (knife, sword, spear), jewelry (shaped like identity plaques but without the tech inside, and made of metal), and something called a control rod and collar which looks like a rather evil device for controlling somebody.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/31/26, 3:08 PM
Does the jewelry described here correspond to the platinum ID card(s) we've found?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 3:09 PM
You've noticed the metal ones don't actually open any doors.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/31/26, 3:09 PM
The silver ones did.  Or are they just silver coloured and not silver metal?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 3:10 PM
Those are silver colored plastic.
(Archontean doesn't have the word "plastic" but Akla-Chah taught you the Rudishva word.)
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 3:32 PM
That forge looks exciting! 
teleportation plates too!
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 1/31/26, 3:36 PM
Can we work with Akla-Chah to corellate the crew roster with the descriptions of Crallicarus, Sakorikus, Ravatorus, Isocrates, Melacorius, and Nacalorus, the names that we found on the Chalkboard?  These would have been Rudishva known to still be active when the ancient Archonteans found the remnants of the Beacon, thus possibly still active today.  Knowing their faces and Rudishva names might prove useful down the road.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 3:38 PM
Did rudishva not breed on this planet at all?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 3:41 PM
Yes.  Akla-Chah says that Crallicarus is probably Crellik-Var, a ship morale officer who Akla-Chah used to work with.  Salorikus is not in the crew roster but is probably Psalor-Ki, who was the first Rudishva born on this planet.  (That was a very big deal at the time.)  Ravatorus is probably Reiv-Tor, a science officer.  Isocrates sounds like Isok-Crix, a jemadar or line officer.  Melacorius is Melok-Ri, another line officer.  Finally Nacalorus sounds like Naik-Lir, a steward.
There were some Rudishva born on this planet, but only a few.  None of the Beacon crew were official partners during the voyage (there were rules about that.)  After the crash and after it was clear they'd be stuck on this planet a while, the captain relaxed that rule and allowed crew intermarriage (but not in the same direct line of command) but not many children were born for whatever reason.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 5:01 PM
oooh, what do the robots say about these other than the name? Point Defense Array
Portable Point Defense Controller
Also, what does the command bracelet do?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 5:13 PM
The point defense array is one of those turrets like the ones in the cave outside the bastion.  The manual indicates that it fires tiny pieces of metal at very fast speeds and this kills things.  This one is turned off.  The point defense controller is a 4' x 3' x 2' box with a screen, 4 switches, 2 dials, and 4 sticks.  The specs in the computer say that it requires a Greater Power Supply and that it can control the Point Defense Array in a variety of automated modes to control how it "engages targets."  These items appear very dangerous.
The command bracelet appears to be both a communication and authorization device.  It allows communicating over a distance with many Rudishva machines and anyone wearing a command or communication bracelet.  It also allows giving commands to many Rudishva machines, up to about 100' away.
Akla-Chah indicates that she can talk to anyone wearing that bracelet even if they are miles away.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 5:18 PM
I'll put it on I guess.  Can I also communicate with the main ship computer that way?
Does the Defense Array have the power supply?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 5:20 PM
You put on the bracelet.  It shows a list of devices in range, which include "Beacon Bridge", "AKL-600", "Nutri-Vore 2500", and "point defense array".
There is no power supply plugged into the array.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 1/31/26, 7:09 PM
Now, Ioannes is going to research green dragons in general, with an eye to the ecosystems around them. He will also brew a major healing potion (for lack of a better thing to brew)
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 7:23 PM
Research: Green dragons are one of the more commonly seen types of dragons, as they tend to live in ruins or forests.  They are said to breathe clouds of deadly poison gas.  Like other dragons, they tend to be very intelligent and to use magic.  They radiate terror.  They sometimes ally with lizardmen or kobolds.  The authors recommend staying far away. 
Alchemy: success, discount
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 9:43 PM
What's the deal with the seed box?
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 10:33 PM
Akla-Cha said that the Rudishva "did not magic" some time ago.  Does she stand by that? if so, who integrated all the magical bits I've seen in their spaces like the defense skeletons and the  shaft with the levitation spell?  Also, does she know what that is?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 10:36 PM
She says any magic was done by the traitors.  She says that sounds like the transit shaft they built for moving cargo between some levels.
Akha-Chah said the Rudishva mostly used their teleportation network, but some items didn't fit.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 10:38 PM
Does she know how the transit shaft works?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 10:39 PM
She does not have documentation on that.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 10:40 PM
Does the bland box? (Main ship computer).
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 10:43 PM
The computer indicates that the Transit Shaft was used to move equipment and supplies, and required magical grouting plus a special liquid.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 1/31/26, 10:44 PM
is the transit shaft safe for living things? is the liquid?
dripton (GM) — 1/31/26, 10:45 PM
The computer indicates that the transit shaft is considered safe as long as all protocols are followed, including periodically inspecting the grout and making sure the liquid is applied to at least 90% of each object that needs levitation.  Failure of the grout or incomplete application of liquid, or attempting to levitate for too long after liquid was applied, could result in gravity damage.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/1/26, 9:36 AM
oh yeah, I'll have Basil go to town with some of my money ($500 or so) to find someone who can make me a chess board that's fancy enough to make the dragon happy.
dripton (GM) — 2/1/26, 9:43 AM
Basil comes back with a receipt from Chairduster the jeweler, who is now working on a fancy chess board.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/1/26, 1:20 PM
I'm going to drive most of my rudishva lessons around learning the history of the war with the heqeti
dripton (GM) — 2/1/26, 1:25 PM
Your understanding of spoken Rudishva has improved dramatically.  Before you got most of the words but now you're getting every single word.  After a while, you figure out it's the red bracelet.
The computer and Akla-Chah have a bit on the war with the heqeti.  Basically, the Beacon crashed, the crew made it to the ground in the shuttles, and then the crew started exploring the Halls looking for parts of the Beacon to try to rebuild it.  Then they ran into heqeti, who kept attacking them.  The Rudishva Hegemony fought back with superior weapons and tactics, but the heqeti kept coming.  Eventually the Captain sent a large force to the Heqeti territory deep under Arden Vul.  They had some kind of pyramid in a big cave underground.  The Rudishva killed most the heqeti there, chased the survivors out of the area into the deep underworld, and then trashed their pyramid, including taking their demon horn.  After that, the heqeti mostly stayed away from the Rudishva.  But then the kaliyani decided to ally with the heqeti and the two launched a successful sneak attack and killed most of the Rudishva. 
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/3/26, 6:32 PM
I'd like to ask the ship computer to flip through the various places where we have video. I'm especially looking right now for points of interest, known landmarks, and any living creatures on the screen
dripton (GM) — 2/3/26, 6:43 PM
The red screen on the right side of the bridge lights up and starts cycling through moving pictures of several areas.

* You see an octagonal room containing several coffin-sized containers, standing vertically.  Some are empty, others have glass fronts and seem to contain people inside, but you can't see a lot of detail.  The label is "containment units, 150' deep"

* You see a cylindrical room with 8 cubicles and an open area.  There are some red knobs protruding from the ceiling.  You see a lot of high technology items in the room.  The label is "Armory, 600' deep"

* You see a room with a couple of holes in the floor like the one between levels on the bridge. It looks like typical white Rudishva architecture, except there's a brown smear down the middle of the floor.  The label is "Residential Pod, 850' deep"

* You see a large room with high platforms around the edges and then the central part is much lower.  There are large technological devices in the bottom part, and some consoles like the ones in the bridge in the top part.  The label is "Engine Room, 1400' deep"

* You see a large room containing two large machines that look a bit like dragons.  One appears intact and the other is missing some pieces.  You also see several smaller machines scattered around the room.  They label is "Shuttle Bay, 1500' deep"

* You see the room you're in right now, from above yourself.  When you move your arm, it moves in the picture!  The label is "Bridge, 50' deep"
 
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/3/26, 6:49 PM
I asked the computer if it knows what each of these rooms are and if it has any idea their position relative to me
dripton (GM) — 2/3/26, 6:51 PM
The computer adds some text to each screen, in both Rudishva and Archontean.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/3/26, 10:43 PM
I'll ask A-C and the Computer if I can change access levels for doors too
dripton (GM) — 2/3/26, 10:46 PM
Akla-Chah isn't sure.  The computer indicates that this is not possible as the door security systems are local.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 2/5/26, 3:41 PM
Vallium attempts to brew a Potion of Universal Antidote.

Vallium reads the book Arden Speaks.

Vallium spends $125 for a +2 to his Carousing roll.

Vallium Researches the "Sortian Dragons" that were mentioned in Uriel's letter to Kel Bormol.

Vallium visits Fael at the Grain House and pays for more of her concoction that builds up his resistance to poison.
dripton (GM) — 2/5/26, 4:14 PM
Alchemy: fail, pay extra
Arden Speaks is a collection of things Arden allegedly said, in Mithric.  Arden was clearly in favor of hard work, loyalty, obedience, and respect for authority.
Vallium hears a surefire way to open the Obsidian Gates: Lockmaster, Shape Earth, Blink.  In that order.
Vallium finds references to both the Sortians and the Theosophs using dragons during the Civil War, in violation of the Compact of Ennius.
Vallium drinks some more really foul stuff.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/7/26, 11:27 AM
Vael's going to do a few things right away 
1) draw sketches of the people he saw while seekering the rug.
2) interview all the residents of the APC for any knowledge about the theft, and survey the building for damages or lost items
3) study the history spell and cast it on the rug.
4) meet with our lawyer and get his advice on who to ask, how to best respond and if he thinks wicktrimmer and yellow eyes are the right people to confer with.  Also who might be willing to lend military aid for a final crushing assault on the cult
Effective skill 19 with bless for history
dripton (GM) — 2/7/26, 12:06 PM
Vael draws a sketch of a male goblin and a female human.
Vael talks to Lyssandra, Pelteon, and a couple of mages who were in the building at the time.  Nobody saw anything.
History gives Vael a picture of sitting on the floor in the APC apartment, then being carried in a Bag of Holding (disorienting!), then being rolled up in a corner in the Settite room, then being picked up by a middle-aged woman with red hair and heavy makeup and fancy armor, then being handed by that woman to a male goblin with a younger woman standing next to him, then being carried through underground corridors by the same goblin walking next to the younger woman, then poof disappearing from those corridors and appearing in Gosterwick outside the APC, then flying through the air held by nobody up through the window to the APC apartment floor.
dripton (GM) — 2/7/26, 12:13 PM
Vael narrowly avoids hurling during the Bag of Holding part, and resolves not to go inside of one if he can avoid it.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/7/26, 12:16 PM
So I never saw who stuffed the rug in the bag of holding?
dripton (GM) — 2/7/26, 12:16 PM
Barnaby Goodbarrel charges Vael $100 to give his professional legal opinion that Wicktrimmer is trustworthy if he's your friend but you would not want to be his enemy.  He says that Audun Yellow-Eyes is Lady Alexia's pick for the Drome post but possibly not offically approved by Keko the Lame in Narsileon, seeing as the Empire does not quite formally recognize Lady Alexia's claim to Gosterwick, but he thinks that both Audun and Keko probably want the Settites wiped out.  Whether they'd actually help, he has no idea.
The Rug was just moving around with nobody holding it. 
Either Apportation or Invisibility.
Either way, whoever robbed you had magic.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/7/26, 12:23 PM
Ok I'll request an appointment with both of those people and also with freydis to try to get answers, make a report and request a boon.  I'd like to take good barrel For the report
When making the report I will intentionally gloss over the effects of the magical rug and I won't mention any point at which we teleport. We've simply traveled from place to place.
dripton (GM) — 2/7/26, 12:39 PM
You pay another $200 to take your lawyer with you to two meetings.  Wicktrimmer is not around; Tresti says he's on a trading trip and should be back in a week or so, and she can send a Message if it's urgent.  Audun is not available; one of his assistants takes a report about a burglary but says at least there were no explosions or dead bodies this time and they only stole a rug.  Freydis listens carefully, then starts asking for details about the rug that was taken. 
Freydis also asks for any progress on finding the Regalia.  She says it's amazing how quickly you can find some things...
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/7/26, 6:18 PM
I'll diplomatically acknowledge how hard it is to find items without good physical descriptions scattered all over the ruins of an ancient many level complex, and how easy it is to find a magic rug I loved that really tied the room together.  I'll inform her we're looking into a lead on the circlet and that I'll be able to confirm if the rumors are true by this time next week.  I'll also diplomatically inform her that it's very difficult to search the ruins well when your home is unsafe from the predations of an illegal cult that is an ongoing distraction from your primary efforts.
Then I'll stop by the rarities factor again and ask if our stuff is in an isolated vault or if it's comingled with other people's stuff, and ask to see said vault that I'm evaluating for retention of other valuable goods.
dripton (GM) — 2/7/26, 6:36 PM
Freydis indicates that it's difficult to keep the town safe without Imperial recognition of the Lady's authority.
You stop by the Rarities Factor.  Wicktrimmer isn't in.  One of the guards indicates that your goods are currently in a shared vault along with the goods of other valued customers, as you are not storing enough to get a whole vault.  He indicates that if you want to make changes, you should speak to Wicktrimmer when he returns.
Cosmo (Uvash) [gur㎰],  — 2/10/26, 8:49 AM
Uvash researches Liches and any information about them.
dripton (GM) — 2/10/26, 8:56 AM
Liches are evil archmages who have cheated death by becoming undead.  Their intelligence is moved into an object called a phylactery to protect it from decay.  They typically have hordes of undead minions.  All information on liches is highly speculative since few people have actually met one and survived.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 2/10/26, 4:34 PM
Ioannes will brew a potion of major healing
dripton (GM) — 2/10/26, 4:34 PM
What level of Bless does Ioannes have?
Cosmo (Uvash) [gur㎰],  — 2/10/26, 4:35 PM
I believe 2 (that's what I do usually) 
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 2/10/26, 4:35 PM
+2, and his Alchemy went up with IQ (I'm doing this before I upload the sheet)
dripton (GM) — 2/10/26, 4:35 PM
Success; discount
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 2/10/26, 4:37 PM
Uploaded the sheet; Ioannes will research mummies
dripton (GM) — 2/10/26, 4:42 PM
Mummies are necromantically preserved spirits of powerful priests.  They are typically wrapped in bandages.  They sometimes wear vestiges of their former clothing and carry a holy symbol of their deity.  They are intelligent and often command lesser undead.  Many can cast spells.  They often guard objects of significance.  They radiate fear.  They can inflict mummy rot, a fatal disease.  They are vulnerable to holy water, fire, and electricity.  They are resistant to cold and most weapons.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 2/10/26, 4:43 PM
puts back Ye Olde Monster Manual
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/10/26, 5:59 PM
Electricity is handy...
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 2/24/26, 9:01 PM
Vallium will consult both Sorcerous Properties of Gems (Obtained 14-November-2025, Session 31, Page Reference 874) and The Intelligent User's Guide to the Mystical Properties of Gems (Obtained 09-January-2026, Session 37, Page Reference 151) for his down-time Research.  Specifically what do they have to say about Sapphires, (hopefully to glean what properties two sapphire eyes might hold).

Vallium attempts to brew a Potion of Flight.

While in Newmarket Vallium would like to:
Spend $125 for a +2 to a Carousing roll.
Attend the Newmarket market day.
Visit Wicktrimmer's Rarities Factor Newmarket location.
Visit the Tower of the Ape to see if there has been any noticeable changes
( I understand some of this will be addressed at the top of next session and not online)
dripton (GM) — 2/24/26, 9:18 PM
Vallium meets two Wiskin mercenaries, who just turned down a job from a trader who wanted to sell  food to the Forum of Set in Arden Vul, and purchase some slaves there to smuggle out past Gosterwick where slavery is illegal.   They say they if it was just the food they might have taken the job, but they aren't going to work for a slaver.
The Newmarket market runs five days a week.  The selection there seems a bit better than in Gosterwick.
Vallium is surprised to run into Wicktrimmer himself at the Rarities Factor in Newmarket.  He says he's going back to Gosterwick tomorrow, if Vallium wants a ride.
The Tower of the Ape looks about the same on the outside.  The gates are closed and nobody has disturbed the snow.
Alchemy: success!
Research: sapphires are linked to wisdom, magic, vision, cold, and chastity.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/26/26, 7:59 PM
Vael will read "Vul speaks", pay for reverse engineering on the youth potion and the deafening light grenade. I'll happily pay extra for her to take more time for better success rate.  More to come after I get my kid to bed 
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 2/26/26, 8:00 PM
Vallium has already read Vul Speaks.
.
Vul Speaks is rough going as the Mithric is archaic, though you can get through most of it.  You are not sure if all of it was actually written by Vul.  There are discussions of Vul's travels, his life with Arden, mastering arcanum, and building a house and laboratory "within sight of the city that bears my name."  There's a lot of magical theory that's hard to follow.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/26/26, 8:20 PM
Yeah it's the last part that got me wanting to read it
I put it on my list to get around to a while ago
dripton (GM) — 2/26/26, 9:03 PM
Deafening Light: $500, you have the recipe
Youth: $500, you have the recipe but it apparently requires vampire blood, which you do not have.
Vul Speaks: This is a pretty good book but you're not sure Vul actually wrote it.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/26/26, 9:15 PM
Nothing on the magic theory?
dripton (GM) — 2/26/26, 9:16 PM
Nothing actionable.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/26/26, 9:18 PM
What does deafening light do?
dripton (GM) — 2/26/26, 9:19 PM
It's in the loot sheet.  Flash + Concussion Area 3
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/26/26, 9:28 PM
Oh... I'll make one of those
dripton (GM) — 2/26/26, 9:29 PM
Alchemy: success
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/26/26, 10:12 PM
remaining town business:
reading 2 more books:  The Kauketiad and "on the properties of Arcanum" from page 150 (2025-07-11)
headed to Astabelon's bookstore to spend $1k on whatever he has to support a magical research library that we don't currently possess and then another $500 for blank books to have ready for copying.  Happy to spend that to let him order things and he should reach out at the APC to deliver the books.  I'll keep buying books if he keeps finding books worth buying.
While I'm out and about, I'll stop by the Rarities Factor and ask Wicktrimmer if there's any news on the set cult, explain what happened to our rug, and ask if he knows anything.  I'll offer to pay for additional information if he knows or can find out anything about a thief who could/would have stolen the rug unseen that also had a bag of holding to deliver to the settites. 
Continue studying written Rudishva.
dripton (GM) — 2/27/26, 9:11 AM
Kauketiad: This is a surprisingly good epic poem about the wars between the Archonteans and the heqeti.  It does not focus on leaders, but rather on the fidelity (symbolized by a ring), protection (armor), vengeance (sword), and nobility (heart) of the Archontean soldiers.  The climax was conquering the underground Ziggurat of Kauket, which was allegedly north and east from the bottom of the chasm.
Properties of Arcanum: This is in Rudishva and you can't read it.
You spend $1500 on books.
Wicktrimmer is back in Gosterwick.  He doesn't know anything about the people who stole your Rug, but if it was taken to the Forum of Set, it was clearly someone from the cult or someone working for them.  He suggests hiring guards.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 2/27/26, 4:41 PM
I guess Ioannes will brew a major healing potion, take advantage of the time
dripton (GM) — 2/27/26, 4:41 PM
Alchemy: success
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 2/27/26, 4:41 PM
He will also research Neferet herself
dripton (GM) — 2/27/26, 4:44 PM
You find a couple of references to a powerful high priestess of Thoth named Neferet, just before the civil war.  She was second in command of the temple of Thoth in Arden Vul, after the Prior.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 2/27/26, 4:55 PM
We can also straight up ask Stamelis about Neferet at the top of the session, he would have been a Head of Thoth/Librarian Emeritus during that time.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/27/26, 5:09 PM
Is the computer or Akla-cha willing to read it to me? Reading it with an audiobook could be rudishva written practice.
dripton (GM) — 2/27/26, 5:13 PM
You ask Akla-Chah to read the book.  It talks about arcanum as a source of power and a way to create items.  It mentions Creation Molds and contains several recipes for creating items using the Creation Molds and arcanum.  Items include struts, plating, fuel cells, teleportation plates, melee weapons, jewelry, and control rods and circlets.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/27/26, 5:20 PM
any ways to use Arcanum for power that seem relevant to me for fueling magic or similar?
dripton (GM) — 2/27/26, 5:21 PM
It mentions using it to recharge items.  It does not talk about direct spellcasting.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 2/27/26, 5:22 PM
Hmm, how specific is it on how ot recharge an item?
dripton (GM) — 2/27/26, 5:23 PM
It mentions that putting a lump of arcanum near certain items can recharge them while depleting the arcanum.
Cosmo (Uvash) [gur㎰],  — 3/15/26, 12:28 AM
This week, in down time, Uvash is going to be a busy bee. This is his to-do list:
Uvash is going to spread news to his flock of his feats using the Power of Zorradrim invested in him to run around and kill things really fast.
Uvash is going to tidy up his bedroom in wait for arrival of his son and wife in the spring.
Uvash is going to "research" (not the skill) Zorradrim (though he knows lots of information) in search of ways to learn more about how to effectively bring his word to the Halls of Arden Vul
Uvash is going to research Gokkick Obsidian and Clan Obsidian.
Uvash is going to try to convert some of the slaves who've been made freemen, convincing them that it was the will of Zorradrim alone that they stand here as freemen now
Uvash is going to see how much it would cost to hire a cook to start preparing Dwarven Meals for his companions each week as part of a new healthy eating regimen

(Let me know if any of this is mutually exclusive)
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 3/15/26, 12:29 AM
I don't know if we're getting a whole week. It sounds like the conclusion is one day
Cosmo (Uvash) [gur㎰],  — 3/15/26, 12:29 AM
Next week then...
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 3/22/26, 3:16 PM
This week
I ask the computer and AC about "eye-shaped sapphire, shocks (1d-2) any who touch it, but does not radiate magic" see if they know anything.
I go dig up Tresti's spellbook and make a copy using the copy spell and a blank book (I spent $500 on blank books a while back, but we didn't quantify how many generic "books" that counts as).  Is the copy sufficient to learn spells from? if yes, I'll offer her her old spellbook back.  I don't know why we never did that before, but I'll totally tell her "hey we found this, I saw your name in it and wanted to give it back to you ).
I ask Ioannes to cast gift of letters and identify this book from ages past: 2025-04-18 185    Book: Unknown (secret language of Thoth?) 

I'll go learn see invisible at the APC, then come back and study the new book, potentially just making a non-invisible copy to read at my leisure if that seems the more practical way.

I'll read a few books: 
Canticle of Arcane Knowledge
The Highly Impressive Story of Frigg the Fabulous
Practical Animal Magic

I'll work on my Will 
 [gur㎰], 
Cosmo (Uvash) [gur㎰],  — 3/22/26, 3:29 PM
Uvash will do these tasks this week.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 3/22/26, 4:30 PM
Ioannes has already identified that book as Property of Eustachius the Cantor
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 3/22/26, 5:02 PM
Huh thanks
dripton (GM) — 3/22/26, 6:29 PM
Uvash doesn't find anything about Gokkick Obsidian.  Clan Obsidian is in Kazildor.
Uvash can hire an actual dwarven cook for $200/week, plus the cost of ingredients.  He can hire a human cook who claims to know how to prepare dwarven food for $100/week, plus the cost of ingredients.
Uvash attempts Propaganda.
dripton (GM) — 3/22/26, 6:36 PM
The computer doesn't know anything useful about these sapphires.  Vael makes a copy of Tresti's book and returns the original.  Vael makes a copy of the invisible spellbook.  It contains 3 uncommon spells: Frigg's Elephant Ears, Frigg's Jelly Legs, Pelagion's Rock Sympathy.
Canticle of Arcane Knowledge is by Priscus Pulcher.  The thesis is that Magery is evenly distributed through the population, not restricted to nobles.
Frigg was an Imperial Goblin, one of the first to be trained as a wizard.  He was an apprentice of Vul.  He invented a lot of spells and defeated trolls, ogres, giant worms, human noble women, etc.
Practical Animal Magic is a list of properties of animal parts.  It's useful for finding ingredients for potions and magic items.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 3/23/26, 7:06 PM
Vallium will ask Vael to use Analyze Magic on his recently purchased Ring of Wish.

Vallium will attempt to brew a Potion of Agility.

Vallium will read On the Location of Priscus Pulcher.

Vallium spends $125 for a +2 to his Carousing roll.

Vallium will Research the Vasildon family.

Vallium will visit Theopilus to make copies of his new keys (2 copies of 47 Settite keys from Session 43 and 1 copy of the key from Session 44(Page Reference 273), for a total of 95 keys.  1 set of the Settite keys will be for Gribble, and the other duplicate set for Vallium's backup keyring.
dripton (GM) — 3/23/26, 7:09 PM
Analyze Magic: Vael says it's a Ring of One Wish
Alchemy: success!
The book is in Mithric so it's a difficult read.  Alexandros lists 17 possible locations for Priscus Pulcher's remains.  He argues for and against each of them.  Possible locations include The Cloud Castle of Earl Reginald, a Charnel Pit on the Outskirts of Arden Vul, the Tower of Scrutiny, and The Villa of Lady Isodora.  He seems to think the latter is most likely.
Carousing: Jost tells Vallium that an elf wizard has been trying to sell some secret related to Arden Vul to other adventuring parties, for a large amount of cash or arcanum.  He said Dalton wasn't willing to pay the asking price, so he doesn't know what they're selling or if it's legit.
Theopilus says he can copy all those keys for a total of $1000.  He will throw in a couple of large key rings.
dripton (GM) — 3/23/26, 7:37 PM
Research: Vallium doesn't find anything.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 3/24/26, 7:36 AM
Oh, I'll give Basil an extra 1k in food budget this week to go shopping in a big way.
Oh and I'll make an Invulnerability potion
and I need to identify the magic dust I bought 
dripton (GM) — 3/24/26, 8:44 AM
Alchemy: success
The black sand dispells creatures from the Elemental Plane of Fire back to their homeland for a year.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 3/24/26, 8:47 AM
That's very specific. Does it have a name that I can refer to it by so that I don't have to just keep calling it that black sand that exiles fire creatures?
dripton (GM) — 3/24/26, 8:48 AM
Efreeti Sand
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 3/24/26, 8:53 AM
Does it weigh and is it used roughly like visibility dust?
dripton (GM) — 3/24/26, 8:56 AM
You have a bag with about 2# of it.  You think it's a grenade weapon like visibility dust.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 3/27/26, 3:56 PM
Ioannes will research the particulars of the sordid story we found in the last delve, and brew alkahest
dripton (GM) — 3/27/26, 3:58 PM
You mean the Ancient Incriminating Information?
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 3/27/26, 3:58 PM
yep
nothing like old-timey dirt
dripton (GM) — 3/27/26, 4:02 PM
The documents allege that Lucius Krakteros, second son of the Krakteros clan about 1200 years ago, had three families.  One in Archontos, one in Narsileon, and one in Arden Vul.  You found documentation verifying the existence of Lucius Kruk (allegedly Krakteros' alias) and his wife and four children in Arden Vul at the time.  You can't really prove that this was Krakteros, though.
dripton (GM) — 3/27/26, 4:03 PM
Do you have Bless +2?
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 3/27/26, 4:04 PM
yep
dripton (GM) — 3/27/26, 4:08 PM
Ioannes knocks the flask of mostly-done aklahest off the counter, but somehow catches it in mid-air without spilling much.  He looks around, but unfortunately nobody was watching.
Alchemy: success
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 2:21 PM
Ioannes will research magical fortifications (relating to Kyle’s question) and brew more alkahest
dripton (GM) — 2:31 PM
Research: Ioannes goes to the Arcane Practitioners' Club and reads up on ways to stop teleportation.  He finds several mentioned.  One is a an alleged spell called "Drain Mana" that can apparently make an area a No Mana Zone, stopping all magic.  You don't know if it's real or fictional; it certainly isn't common.  Another is "Teleport Shield", a spell that stops teleportation in an area while allowing other magic.  Finally, there's a mundane method: lead-lined walls.  This is expensive as it requires a lot of lead and the walls are very heavy so constructing them to not collapse under their own weight is challenging, but allegedly prevents both scrying and teleportation. 
Alchemy: Ioannes once again gets distracted and almost messes up his potion, but he feels a subtle poke in the back of the neck.  He looks behind him and nobody is there, but then he re-focuses and finishes the potion.