Rumors

Zuljita — 3/15/25, 2:57 AM
Vael rumor 1 "The priests of Mitra are looking for some chumps to track down one of their missing clergy, a priestess named Lillian. It seems she went missing by that  huge overgrown Thicket down near the cliff of Arden Vul. We ran into a shepherd who claims he saw her being taken by walking pigs up the cliff into the ruins
of Arden Vul. If you can find and return this Lillian, there's a big reward posted in Newmarket."
Vael rumor 2 "Thoth was deeply important to the ancient empire, as he represented the light of knowledge that erased the darkness of ignorance. For this reason, the Thoth priests were obsessed with light; every one of their Halls remains brightly lit with Thoth's bright, clear, light."

Adam M — 3/15/25, 2:57 AM
Rumor 2: "Many of the most ardent devotees of Thoth, known as Thoth's Beloved, were buried in a set of catacombs located just under the pyramid. They are guarded by the power of Thoth himself, which has prevented all intruders from entering the catacombs."

Zuljita — 3/15/25, 2:57 AM
Vael rumor 2 "Thoth was deeply important to the ancient empire, as he represented the light of knowledge that erased the darkness of ignorance. For this reason, the Thoth priests were obsessed with light; every one of their Halls remains brightly lit with Thoth's bright, clear, light."

Zuljita — 3/15/25, 2:58 AM
🐐 1️⃣ "A massive road, built for creatures larger than [humans], runs for a mile through the caverns. If you can get on it, you’ll be able to reach the goblin king and the troll thegn."

🐐 2️⃣ "The caverns under Arden Vul produced a large supply of a wondrous orange mineral that proved to have very many arcane uses. The city was abandoned when the mines ran dry."

Greybrown — 3/19/25, 1:52 PM
Rumor 1: A unique source of magical energy exists inside the plateau, drawing both creatures and inquisitive mages. It can be  manipulated by powerful mages for good ... or for ill. Look for the orange rocks.
.

Greybrown — 3/19/25, 1:52 PM
Rumor 2: We were waiting to take the lift down to the troll market when a huge troll exiting the lift asked us a question in surprisingly good Thorcin! It wanted to know if we had seen one of its fellow hunters, a troll named Bedara. When we said no, the troll spat and wouldn't say another word. I got the feeling that they'd be real friendly if you could find this Bedara.
.

Greybrown — 3/19/25, 1:53 PM
Rumor 3: Some 250 years ago the emperor sent six cohorts of legionaries, five from the Sheepshead Rangers and one from his own guards tagmata, to recolonize Arden Vul. All six cohorts were lost in a battle fought at the "Cavern of Blood". What is worse, their battle standards were also lost. The archon who led the expedition, a certain Adrienic, committed suicide rather than report his failure.
.

Greybrown — 4/11/25, 2:00 AM
Rumor 4: The Hall of Forty Pillars is right next to the Obsidian Gates. The hall is filled with these creepy albino toads. If the wrong person touches the Gates, the toads turn into demons and attack.
.

Greybrown — 4/19/25, 12:07 AM
Rumor 5: The great Thothian wizard, Ptarmis, built himself a secret tomb amid a huge 
forest of colossal mushrooms. We found the fungus cavern on the second level
from the surface, but were driven back before we could locate the tomb by some
sheep- headed critters wielding swords and spears.

Greybrown — 4/26/25, 12:04 AM
Rumor 6: A psychotic halfling thug named Plummie, Plumit, or Plum-something has taken
over the top level, just under the pyramid.  He won't let anyone pass unless
they buy an 'exploration license'. I'd pay up, because his goons are armed with potent magic wands.

Greybrown — 5/16/25, 12:59 PM
Rumor 7: A terrible dragon is the ruler of the surface ruins of Arden Vul. To access the dungeons you need to sneak past her in the dead of the night, when she's sleeping. I've heard that she extorts a toll on all those she catches exiting the Halls. If you can't pay, she burns you up.
.

Greybrown — 5/16/25, 1:00 PM
Rumor 8: To find the Drowned Canyon you gotta follow the water, right? I knew an adventurer named Leofwin Rufus who told me that all you had to do was locate the waterfall in the chasm and then follow the river back to the canyon. Easy as pie!
.

Greybrown — 5/16/25, 1:01 PM
Rumor 9: The green dragon that rules the surface ruins is the daughter of a terrible 
wyrm that lives at the bottom of the Great Chasm within the mountain. This ancient wyrm is twice as old and twice as potent as the green; it is served by a race of deathless, horned skeletons whom the old Empire referred to as 'the survivors'

Greybrown — 5/29/25, 10:25 PM
Rumor 10:  It’s worth trying to get information from anyone whis willing to talk. Most intelligent sorts will be willing to parlay, and a few have seriously good info! Look for a strange half-troll called Gog - he’ll steer you right. It’s the non-intelligent things that you have to watch out for.
.

Greybrown — 5/29/25, 10:25 PM
Rumor 11: The precincts of the ibis-god are littered with these creepy statues, all of  which have eyes made out of huge gemstones.  If you try to remove the eyes, the statues animate and wreak bloody vengeance.

Greybrown — 6/13/25, 11:50 PM
Rumor 12: We visited the Forum of Set and saw the sites. You know, the big statue of Set and the pitiful slaves at his  feet, the marketplace, and so forth. We paid up to attend the First Mystery. Huh, pretty lame! No, I won't  tell you what it is... it's a mystery! But the Second Mystery ... that was impressive! I heard there's supposed to be a Third Mystery, but when we asked the Deacon about it he told us to shut up or we'd be sold as slaves.

Archon Shiva — 6/14/25, 12:07 AM
Dwarves and dopplegangers have been fighting a war.  Make sure any dwarves you meet are real dwarves.

Greybrown — 6/20/25, 1:01 AM
Rumor 13: I saw some dodgy-looking tinkers and trademen making their way for something they called The Forum saying that Stephania paid good money for the most basic supplies. They said "if you want to go to The Forum, shine two lanterns from the left side of the river at night-time.  Then look for the basket on the cliff face."

Greybrown — 6/26/25, 5:06 PM
Rumor 14: Everyone uses the old pyramid of Thoth to enter the halls (by the way, check out the gems used for that statue's eyes!  My party leader wouldn't let me grab 'em. Superstitious fool). But because everyone uses that entrance, the areas beneath the pyramid have already been picked clean. I'd suggest finding another route - I heard there was a Shining Well that leads straight to the sweet loot.

Greybrown — 7/3/25, 2:46 AM
Rumor 15: There’s a goblin city in the middle levels somewhere. The main entrance is a huge iron gate built into the wall of that Great Chasm that extends down into the depths. Find the great stone seat near Sundered Span, and you can rappel down from there. But be sure to bring tribute, as the goblin king requires a suitable gift to let you in.

Greybrown — 7/15/25, 3:56 AM
Rumor 16: Most of the archons of Arden Vul built their tombs under the city, in odd corners of the Halls.  So it’s best to keep an eye out for strange construction and secret passages. I’ve heard that the tomb of Julian Grex is located within a grove of underground almond trees.

Greybrown — 7/24/25, 1:37 AM
Rumor 17: We were drinking some of that mushroom ale in the Forum of Set when we overheard some of the red guardsmen whispering about some escaped slaves  causing problems to the north. When we offered help, they turned officious and claimed there was no such thing - nobody escaped the Guild of Service.
