Torunn the Smith is a big Wiskin woman who makes metal weapons and armor.  She has several apprentices who make most items under her supervision, and she does The Good Stuff herself.  She has a reputation as the best smith in Gosterwick.  She showed Vael several dozen examples of weapons and armor, showing the difference between Good and Fine level work, and also Balanced and Dwarven. 
The shrine to Lucreon is a classic, three-chamber structure. The front is the ante-cella, in which the clerics and the devout congregate. The middle chamber is known as the cella, and it is here that the main rituals take place. On the opposite side of the cella is the postern; it is unconnected to the cella and holds the administrative offices and apartments of the clergy. The main cultic object within the cella is the colossal granite statue of Lucreon, dressed as an Archontean factor associate, holding a massive bag of coins in his outstretched right hand. A large wooden chest sits below the money bag; believers are encouraged to place their offerings into the chest. Lucreon’s shrine is home to one of the most impressive mysteries of the temples of Gosterwick. As soon as a coin drops to the bottom of the wooden offering box, it magically appears in the air above the statue of Lucreon and falls 10’ into the god’s open money bag. As a result, during important rituals, a near constant stream of coins may be seen to come clinking down from thin air to fill the god’s bag. It should be noted that when the temple is closed for the night, the clerics empty Lucreon’s bag so that it will be ready to perform the mystery on the morrow. 
The temple of Mitra in Gosterwick is a circular structure of stone, fronted by a portico with an impressive pediment. The pediment shows Mitra, dressed in his shining mail, striding among worshippers, dispensing justice, and punishing the guilty. The main cult object is found within the circular structure; it takes the form of a statue of the god, dressed in an Archontean-style toga, holding the scales of justice forward in his left hand. Worshippers place offerings in the right-hand side of the scales, hoping that Mitra will ‘balance the scales’ by helping their causes. Cleverly set into wall circling the main shrine are the apartments and bureaucratic offices of the cult.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 3/16/2025 10:20 PM
As before, @dripton (GM) , what else do we know about Gosterwick?
dripton (GM) — 3/16/2025 10:28 PM
You've heard there was a tiny Thorcin farming village called Gosterwick on that spot for a long time, but about 20 years ago an Archontean noblewoman named Lady Alexia moved in along with a bunch of Knights of the Azure Shield and built a keep, and started expanding the village into a town.  They tried giving the town an Archontean name but it didn't stick so most still call it Gosterwick.  Probably a couple thousand people there by now.  The walled keep is in the northeast by the lake.  The rest of the walls are marked out by a dirt berm, but not built yet except for 2 gatehouses.  Most of the buildings are in the northeast corner by the keep, with a few buildings like the stables and Arcane Practitioners Club deliberately isolated from the rest.  There are a couple of big ugly wooden guard houses sticking up in the empty part of town, to try to make up for the unfinished walls.  For a small town there are a lot of services: a couple of inns, 4 full temples as well as some small shrines, a full Archontean-style bathhouse, several bars, a few government buildings, a pawn shop, a money changer, some banking factors, even a bookseller.  It has the feel of a boom town.  Something is clearly bringing a lot of money into the area and people are moving to Gosterwick to get some of it.
As travellers you know of both inns.  The Yellow Cloak Inn is good quality at a reasonable price.  That's where all of you were staying.  The Stunned Acolyte is much more expensive; apparently that's where rich people go.  The kind of place where you buy dinner with gold instead of silver.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 3/17/2025 8:38 AM
Is there a map?
dripton (GM) — 3/17/2025 8:52 AM
Probably.  You haven't seen one.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 3/17/2025 10:40 PM
What else do we know about the Yellow Cloak Inn? Seems we spend a lot of time there.
dripton (GM) — 3/17/2025 10:48 PM
Main structure is a 5 story building near the Central Market.  There is a 3 story addition.  There is a reception area, a lounge, an upper-class common room, a main common room, a bunch of individual guest rooms for rent (max occupancy 3), and a couple of dormitories full of bunkbeds.  There are stables in the back.  Meals are served in both common rooms; the upper class room has better food but is more expensive.  Your $150/week cost of living pays for a room and 3 meals per day.  (With most meals in the main common room but a couple per week in the upper-class room if you want.) The innkeeper is Margot the Red, a Thorcin woman.  Her husband Bricwine is the upper-class bartender.  Helle, a Wiskin woman, tends bar in the main common room.  We will start next session in the Yellow Cloak Inn.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 3/18/2025 2:25 PM
So things about it will get fleshed out on Friday
Maybe enough for its own thread


@Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) In his extensive rumor gathering, Vallium has discovered that Gosterwick has 9 taverns and 2 inns.  In roughly ascending order of quality, the taverns are Baliff's Truncheon, Dripping Hog, Rusty Gauntlet, Old Well, Pyrite, Grinning Skull, Muddy Puddle, Three Hanged Men, and the Pig and Whistle.  The inns are the Yellow Cloak and the Stunned Acolyte.

dripton (GM) — 11/4/2025 10:48 AM
First, he ran into Geleg, Tresti, Klisko, and Samantha the Red at the Muddy Puddle.  They are part of a new adventuring party called the Second Chance Company.  They relay the news that Plumthorn's Halflings have been defeated by the United Goblns, and the Halls of Thoth have been renamed Upper Goblintown.  They are allowing passage through their territory from all friendly adventuring groups who respect their sovereignty, but request donations of food or alcohol or money.
Second, he talked to a posh wizard named Asrotelion at the Stunned Acolyte.  He revealed that a crazy rogue wizard named Cerbactos stole some priceless unique tomes from the College of Cinders, and Asrotelion has tracked him all the way to the edge of the Empire and it appears he's about 10 miles north, in Arden Vul.    Asrotelion is leaving tomorrow to bring Cerbactos back home.

First, he ran into Geleg, Tresti, Klisko, and Samantha the Red at the Muddy Puddle.  They are part of a new adventuring party called the Second Chance Company.  They relay the news that Plumthorn's Halflings have been defeated by the United Goblns, and the Halls of Thoth have been renamed Upper Goblintown.  They are allowing passage through their territory from all friendly adventuring groups who respect their sovereignty, but request donations of food or alcohol or money.
Second, he talked to a posh wizard named Asrotelion at the Stunned Acolyte.  He revealed that a crazy rogue wizard named Cerbactos stole some priceless unique tomes from the College of Cinders, and Asrotelion has tracked him all the way to the edge of the Empire and it appears he's about 10 miles north, in Arden Vul.    Asrotelion is leaving tomorrow to bring Cerbactos back home.
dripton (GM) — 11/4/2025 10:53 AM
No, this is the first time you've heard of Kauket.  There are so many demons though.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 11/5/2025 8:23 AM
Vallium has the quirk "Is terrible at giving bad news", so he will solemnly ask Asrotelion where his remains should be sent.  And then propose (yet another) toast, this time in memory of his new friend "Astrolion".  Each time he is genuine and serious.
Vallium will attempt to brew an Alkahest Grenade.  Vallium will seek out the tailor to commission an embroidered patch, comparable in size to the Halfing-Killer Patch, depicting 11 wooden mugs, to commemorate his recent accomplishment.
dripton (GM) — 11/5/2025 9:12 AM
Alchemy: failure, pay extra
Patch: You are able to commission a custom patch for $25 at Tasha's Tailor Shop
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 11/5/2025 9:58 AM
Was this while Vael was on guard duty?  Vael might try to get some more information about Cerbactos and the tomes using diplomacy once Vallium opens the door.
dripton (GM) — 11/5/2025 11:12 AM
Vael got Asrotelion to reveal that Cerbactos was an archmage who had been a member of the Collegium of Cinders but, a few decades ago, disappeared along with several priceless tomes about magical things that Vael isn't cleared to know.  Whatever bureaucratic functionaries were running the College at the time failed to run an effective search and neither Cerbactos or the books were ever found, which was a stain upon the honor of the College.  However, Asrotelion was recently promoted to Assistant Department Head, gaining the authority to resume the search.  And unlike whoever botched the investigation before, Asrotelion actually managed to cast Seeker well enough to find where Cerbactos had gone.  He expects that when he returns with the tomes, he will be promoted to Associate Department Head.  You will probably read about it in a few months.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 11/5/2025 11:45 AM
Does vael think this guy is good enough at stuff to bag an archmage? 
dripton (GM) — 11/5/2025 11:47 AM
Hard to tell from just looking at him.  He has fancy robes and talks a good game.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 11/8/2025 6:49 AM
After returning to Gosterwick Vallium will head to the temple to check on on the rescuees, and see what he can learn from them.  He'll suggest that Harald seek out the Second Chance Company, and to approach the wizard Geleg, as he might be the most sympathetic considering his own run-in with the Settites.  Vallium will let him know about Susarra, and that even Gosterwick is not safe from Settites without friends to watch your back. Vallium will also ask for any details concerning Harald's old party, specifically any defining features or appearances that would help in recognizing them if they were encountered while delving.

Later on, Vallium will empty out Larel's Sack, put a single empty glass alchemy flask in the Sack, close it up, and then repeated slam the Sack against the floor, before checking to see what has happened to the flask. (I want to know if the Fragile Thoth masks can be stored safely in the Sack, or if they should be kept in Gosterwick and brought forth via the rugs when needed)
dripton (GM) — 11/8/2025 9:21 AM
Bad news: Kiglon, the one with his hands cut off, didn't make it.  The priests did what they could but he died in the night.
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 11/8/2025 9:21 AM
Wow even with fantasy healing!
Archon Shiva (Grudge Brigade) — 11/8/2025 9:22 AM
GM rolled an 18.
dripton (GM) — 11/8/2025 9:23 AM
Good news: Hjalti seems to be making a full recovery.  He tells Vallium that he was captured by the Settites in the Great Cavern and thrown in a slave pit.  They were looking for a "lord of the fungi."  They were also looking for an evil sorcerer named Kerbog Khan, who was wanted by one of the Collegium.  (He doesn't know all the details; his party leader, a wizard named Bjorn, died in the fight with the Settites.)  Hjalti lived for a while in one of the Settite slave pits, but then led an escape attempt.  It failed, and he was staked up to die as punishment. 
The other guy you rescued, Harold, is not at the temple.  Hjalti says he stayed for a bit to make sure he and Kiglon were cared for by the priests, then left.

dripton (GM) — 11/22/2025 11:57 AM
Astableon has a bookstore, but it's not a HUGE bookstore.  There are books available but not every book you might want.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/22/2025 12:20 PM
I’m just looking for some simple references, like a single-volume encyclopedia and dictionaries for Archontean and Mithric. Maybe grammar references for those, very basic, like Ars Minor
Very simple bestiary and herbary 
Letting us double check some things, and possibly helping the statue and hologram
dripton (GM) — 11/22/2025 12:22 PM
Yes, Astabelon has books such as The Archontean Empire and Dickios and Janius Learn Mithric.  If you name a budget, he can pick a set of books that match it.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/22/2025 12:23 PM
Will check my budget and see if anyone else wants to contribute

