The Living Wheelbarrow
Ashe's Alcheboretal Animossities is raising funds for The Living Wheelbarrow!

Regular wheelbarrows are boring, can't be levitated, and are a hassle to haul around just to carry the loot. The LIVING wheelbarrow carries 360 pounds of AWESOME packed with so much plant life you'll look for excuses to levitate it more often.

Ashe "The GOAT" Maykum has complete his Shroom for Improvement prototype and the Living Wheelbarrow is ready for mass production.

The Living Wheelbarrow features an underside covered in real living plants, allowing the use of Levitation rather than Apportation to move it around.  It can be pushed or pulled with only a quarter of the strength necessary to move a ground-based wheelbarrow, and ignores difficult terrain, easily raised or lowered across flights stairs or even vertical shafts through simple caster concentration.

The best part?  It requires little more care than a house plant and can survive for days without sunlight.

Available in Fungus White, Moss Green and Yellow Rattle.

The Living Wheelbarrow is not self-powered, self-propelled or self-levitating. A competent caster and Levitation spell is required to make use of the levitating feature. Scroll use by untrained users may result in injury or equipment loss. All designs, components, and plant details are prototypes and are subject to change. Final design, colors, and materials may vary as we continue development and incorporate feedback. We're committed to delivering the best possible product and will keep you updated throughout the process.
Adventurer Pledge      300 silver
One Living Wheelbarrow in a color of your choice.
Free shipping to Gosterwick.
Estimated delivery: Gerakios 2993
Party Pledge      800 silver
Outfit a full party: Get Living Wheelbarrows in all three colors!
Free shipping to Gosterwick.
Estimated delivery: Gerakios 2993
Trailblazer Pledge      2,000 silver
Crowdfunding Exclusive
A personalized wheelbarrow using a mix of plants to feature your own customized color emblem or design on the bottom.
Free shipping to Gosterwick.
Estimated delivery: Basilembrios 2993
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 7/24/2025 7:39 AM
Ioannes and Onyx read through this and look at each other, both befuddled, but saying nothing
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 7/25/2025 1:02 AM
I need it in anarcho-punk lightning blue with a money bag with an arrow on it. 
Archon Shiva (Grudge Brigade) — 9/22/2025 7:46 AM
Update #14
Except for a few stragglers who didn't complete their survey, including on group who may sadly be lost in the dungeon, all Adventurer and Party Pledges have been delivered.  We are now focusing on the unique designs of each Trailblazer pledge.
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 9/22/2025 8:47 PM
Oh, we had an inquiry about our living wheelbarrow down in the dungeon
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 9/22/2025 8:51 PM
Quiet. We'll sell it ourselves
I've already ordered a custom one so I can sell the old one or order a second
err third 
Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 9/22/2025 8:51 PM
yessir!
