Curse Item

Enchantment
Duration: permanent
Cost: 10
Casting time: 1 hour
Prerequisite: Enchant

Gives an item a minor malevolent effect.  The caster and others they specify at the time of casting are unaffected.  Magic items resist.
 
Basil's Torch Treatment
Fire
Cost: 1
Prereq: Create Fire

Triples the lifespan of a torch (normally from 1 hour to 3 hours)
 
The Bracteros Effect
Light and Darkness
Duration: 1 hour
Cost: 4 to cast, 2 to maintain
Prereq: Invisibility
Renders a light source invisible to those more than 7 hexes away from it.
Frigg's Elephant Ears
Mind Control
Regular; R-Will
Cost: 2
Duration: 10 minutes
Prereq: Sense Emotion

Causes the subject's  ears to grow to elephant size if they lie.  They will droop and flap if they tell additional lies.
 
Perpetual Light
Light and Darkness
Regular
Duration: Permanent
Cost: 6 for moonlight, 12 for torchlight, 18 for daylight.
Prereq: Continual Light

Makes a small object (or a small part of a large object) glow permanently.  Does not count as a spell on. This is not an enchantment so it can be dispelled, is destroyed by no mana zones, etc.  The light will be orange.  A small amount of arcanum
is required to cast this spell, and is consumed.

The Hekate's Bonds
Body Control
Regular; R-HT
Duration: 5s
Cost: 8  Cannot be maintained
Prereq: Total Paralysis 

Causes paralysis.  (DFE 66).
 
dripton (GM) — 9/12/2025 11:48 PM
Brain Full of Small Spiders
Illusion; R-Will
Duration: 1 minute.  Can't be maintained.
Cost: 3
Prereq: Perfect Illusion, Itch
Creates a sensation that spiders are crawling on the subject's head.
Causes -1 to all rolls and half movement.
dripton (GM) — 10/11/2025 9:20 AM
Frigg's Jelly Legs
Body Control
Regular; R-HT
Cost: 2
Duration: 1 minute
Prereq: Clumsiness
The target's legs become rubbery and unstable.  They suffer Bad Footing (-2 to hit, -1 to defend, +1 movement point per hex) for the duration of the spell. If they're already suffering from Bad Footing, the effects are cumulative.
dripton (GM) — 10/19/2025 10:08 AM
Hallow
Meta
Area
Base Cost: 5
Casting Time: 1 hour
Duration: Permanent
Prereq: PI 5
Increases the Sanctity (cleric) or Nature's Strength (druid) of the area by one level, to a maximum of High Sanctity or +3 Nature's Strength.  This may only be cast in an appropriate area, such as a temple of the appropriate god for a cleric, or a particularly nice natural area for a druid.  It can be used in an
opposing temple to reduce its sancity for the opposing religion, but only to Normal sanctity; getting to High would require extensive changes to the temple.


Frigg's Fraud
Illusion
Duration: Permanent
Cost: 2
Prereq: Simple Illusion
Causes a magic item to be undetectable by Magery at range.  Detecting it with Magery by touch or with spells like Detect Magic requires a Quick Contest with the spell.