Demented Avenger (Ioannes) — 11/22/2025 10:58 AM
Ioannes will research the eyes that activate statues
dripton (GM) — 11/22/2025 11:10 AM
In the back stacks of the Library of Mitra, Ioannes finds a very old book about the ancient Sortians, the traitors under Priscus Pulcher who rebelled against the natural order of having magic controlled by the approved churches and colleges, in favor of just letting any idiot with magical aptitude cast spells.  Their failure to obey the natural order caused the Civil War and the abandonment of the Exarchate of Narsileon and set the Empire back a thousand years.  Anyway, among all their other sins such as summoning demons and letting women and elves hold leadership positions, they apparently made graven images, magical statues of their vain (and rightly executed by a very wise Exarch) leader Priscus Pulcher, that his charmed dupes could worship in various unapproved ways.  Most of them were too disgusting to recount in this book, but one confirmed ritual involved inserting magical eyes of various types into the eye holes of the statues, with effects such as passing messages, teleportation, and causing nearby children to disobey their parents.  The author advises funding a mission to find and destroy any surviving Sortian statues and eyes to prevent their use for evil. 
Kyle (Vael, Zuljita) — 11/22/2025 11:50 AM
In the end who won? the sortians?
dripton (GM) — 11/22/2025 11:52 AM
It was a long civil war and everyone lost.  But the Empire survived, though with smaller borders.  Spell use was eventually opened up.  Some of the old churches lost power and new churches took their place.  Pulcher and the Sortians are still remembered as traitors but most people are fuzzy as to why.
Greybrown (Vallium Halcyon) — 11/22/2025 11:53 AM
The statue we put eyes into had been identified as "The Philosopher" by us (somehow? I forget the details).  Is Priscus Pulcher also known as The Philosopher? 
dripton (GM) — 11/22/2025 11:55 AM
"The Philosopher" is kind of a generic figure.  Priscus Pulcher was an actual historical figure.  He did look kind of like The Philosopher late in his (shortened by execution) life, though.  You're not sure which came first.